Dog Breeds
of the World

Get your own copy of this book
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045
Written by: Maria Sadowski

PlexiDor Performance Pet Doors
4523 30th St West #E502
Bradenton, FL 34207
http://www.plexidors.com
Dog Breeds of the World is written by Maria Sadowski
Copyright @2015 by PlexiDor Performance Pet Doors
Published in the United States of America August 2015
All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any electronic or
mechanical means, including photocopying, recording, or by any information retrieval and storage system without
permission from PlexiDor Performance Pet Doors.
Stock images from canstockphoto.com, istockphoto.com, and dreamstime.com

Dog Breeds of the World
It isn’t possible to put an exact number on the
dog breeds of the world, because many varieties
can be recognized by one breed registration
group but not by another. The World Canine
Organization is the largest internationally
accepted registry of dog breeds, and they have
more than 340 breeds.

Does breed matter?

Dog breeds aren’t scientifical classifications; they’re
groupings based on similar characteristics of
appearance and behavior. Some breeds have
existed for thousands of years, and others are fairly
new.

It is important to pick a dog that fits the family’s
lifestyle. If you want a dog with a special look but
the breed characterics seem difficult to handle you
might want to look for a mixed breed dog.

Many scientists believe the first dogs were
domesticated around 16,000 years ago, but others
claim evidence points as far back as 32,000 years.
In the latter theory, modern dogs would be related
to an ancient type of wolf that is the ancestor of
both dogs and modern wolves.

The breed matters to a certain extent. Many
people believe that dog breeds mostly have an
impact on the outside of the dog, but through the
ages breeds have been created based on wanted
behaviors such as hunting and herding.

Dogs are individuals, just like people, but being
aware of a breed’s average energy level, exercise
needs, or grooming needs can prevent future
problems.

PlexiDor Features and Benefits
Doors Open Fast
and Close Tight
Large and small pets can use the
same door. Panels open smoothly with
a gentle push and close automatically.
Heavy duty springs are concealed within
the main frame. Doors close quietly
without banging. Won’t disturb you
or frighten your pet.

Secure with Lock, Key
and Security Plate
Keeps unwanted guests out of your
home. Insert the key to lock or unlock the
door. Apply the steel security plate when
leaving for an extended period.

Maximum
Energy Efficiency
The K-9 COMPOSITETM/MC panels are
molded to form a “dual thermo-pane”
for excellent insulation. Both panels
are lined with high-density, nylon pile
weather seal for superior draft-control.
Doors close tight keeping the heating
and cooling inside your home.
Ideal for extreme climates.

K-9 COMPOSITE TM/MC Door Panels
The shatter resistant saloon style door panels
are manufactured with PlexiDor’s exclusive
K-9 COMPOSITETM/MC. The material is specially
formulated to resist damage from sunlight,
extreme temperatures and high impact.

PlexiDor® Performance Advantage
4 Never purchase replacement flaps again
Maximum energy efficiency saves money
4	
on your energy bill every month
4	Secure with lock, key and security plate
4 Freedom for both you and your pet
Enjoy undisturbed sleep or uninterrupted
4	
family or TV time
4 No more accidents or mess
4 Peace of mind

Heavy Duty
Aluminum Frames
Hardened aluminum interior and exterior
frames won’t rust, bend, crack, or warp.
Choose from anodized silver, baked on
white or bronze finish. Extremely durable
and look great in your home.

90 Day Money Back Guarantee
If you are not completely satisfied with your purchase,
just return it to the dealer where you purchased it from
and they will refund the purchase price in full. Shipping
charges are non-refundable.

5 Year Residential Warranty
PlexiDor is covered by a 5 year limited residential warranty.
Any defective part will be repaired or replaced without
expense including standard shipping service for 5 years
from date of purchase. Labor is not covered.

PlexiDor Energy Efficiency
Installing a PlexiDor Performance Pet Door into your home
could save you as much as 10% off your energy bill.
Installing a PlexiDor keeps
the heating and cooling
inside your home!
Opens fast, closes tight!

Opening a standard sized
household door allows
energy to escape.

Each time you open the door to let your dog out, your HEATING and COOLING escapes. Installing a PlexiDor
can save you money every month. Review the chart below to determine your estimated annual savings.

Saving 10% per month could save you $900 in just 5 years
Your Average
Monthly
Energy Bill:

Annual
Amount
Spent

5 Year
Total

5%
Savings

7%
Savings

10%
Savings*

$100

$1,200

$6,000

$300

$420

$600

$150

$1,800

$9,000

$450

$630

$900

$200

$2,400

$12,000

$600

$840

$1,200

* Average total savings in 5 years / 60 months

Energy savings figures
are based on the following:
An average spring/summer
temperature of between 80 and 100
degrees with a household cooling
temperature of 72 degrees.
An average fall/winter temperature
of between 32 and 45 degrees with a
household temperature of 72 degrees.

Above results typical of PlexiDor
owners and are based on 25+ years of
Worldwide customer testimonials.
Actual results may vary based on
household insulation, roof and window
type, age and size of home.

Afghanistan is a country of extremes - there are
high mountains with cold and thin air close to
deserts. The dogs that developed in the southern
and western desert regions tend to be light in
color and have a sparse coat. The dogs from the
north are more compact, darker, and with thicker
coats.

Afghanistan

The Afghan hound is the most known dog breed
from Afghanistan, but there is also the Afghan Shepherd, or Kuchi. This is a herding and guard dog that
follows nomads on their travels.

Afghan Hound
The Afghan Hound is a tall and long-haired dog from
Afghanistan. It is believed to be one of the oldest
types of dogs still in existence, but wasn’t discovered
by the western world until the 19th century.
Some dogs were brought to Europe in the early 1900s,
but none remained after the first World War. The breed
today stems back to a group of dogs brought to Scotland from Pakistan in 1920. The first dogs to reach the
USA came over in 1926.
Afghan Hounds are known for being highly individual,
aloof, and dignified. That is, unless they’re playing. They
love to have fun and often show a clownish side when
it’s time to play.
These dogs make wonderful family members, but they
need a lot of exercise and they are very fast. They are
also able to run for a long time, so you’re not likely to jog
an Afghan tired.
When it comes to grooming, the long coat needs regular
brushing and care.
Most Afghan Hounds weigh between 44 and 59 pounds
and need a Large PlexiDor dog door.

“We are very pleased with your product, the PlexiDor Wall Unit. The Medium size is perfect for our
21 pound terrier mix “Cashew.” We completed the installation ourselves with professional results.
Thank you for making such a great product that opens doors for pets around the country!”
6

Paul Goodman – San Diego, California

Australian dog breeds have mainly developed
as working dogs, helping settlers and pioneers
manage cattle, control rodent and vermin populations, and protect the family.
The Australian Cattle Dog is the most known dog
breed outside its country of origin, but there are
many other breeds from Australia. For example, the
Australian Terrier, Australian Kelpie, Halls Heeler,
Kangaroo Dog and Miniature Fox Terrier.

Australia

Australian Cattle Dog
The Australian Cattle Dog is often called ACD, or just cattle dog, and these are energetic cattle herders ready to work
all day. In their home land Australia these dogs drive cattle across long distances over rough terrain, and they are
unfazed by angry cows. An individual with strong herding instinct can get the idea to herd anything that moves.
Australian Cattle Dogs are agile,
curious, strong, and intelligent. They
consistently score amongst the ten
most intelligent breeds. They generally
also have a lot of energy, and paired
with bright minds this means they
need something to do. Bring the ACD
along on adventures, jogging, hiking,
or whatever the family is up to.
This is a wonderful breed for herding,
obedience training, or agility, and the
dog bonds closely with the family.
Little grooming is required, and an
occasional bath and brushing is
enough.
Most Australian Cattle Dogs weigh
under 50 pounds, and need either a
medium or a large PlexiDor dog door.
Contact customer service if you’re
uncertain of the size.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Belgium is a small country in Western Europe that
shares borders with France, Germany, Luxembourg,
and the Netherlands. There are quite a few Belgian
dog breeds, several of which are often used as guard
dogs and police dogs.

Belgium

Famous Belgian dog breeds include the Belgian
Shepherd Dog that is divided into the Groenendael,
Laekenois, Malinois, and Tervuren, the Bloodhound,
the Bouvier des Flandres, and the Schipperke.

Groenendael
The Groenendael - or Belgian Sheepdog - is a working dog
from Belgium. This breed is elegant, strong, intelligent, and
easy to train.
The breed stems back to the 1800s and were originally used as
herders, watchdogs, and companions. Their smarts and versatility soon made them popular outside the country of origin, and
early on the Groenendaels served as police dogs in Paris and
New York City, and they were famous for catching smugglers for
Belgian customs.
Many other breeds declined during the world wars, but the
Groenendael’s usefulness allowed them to thrive. During WWI
they carried messages, served as ambulance dogs, and even
pulled machine guns. During WWII they guarded military installations and watched for intruders.
In today’s world, not many need a herding dog, but the
Groenendael still excels. Many work in search and rescue, as
guide dogs, and as therapy dogs. They also do very well in dog
sports such as obedience, agility, and tracking.
This is a high energy breed that likes to have a lot to do. They
need exercise, but are able to relax in a home environment, and
they’re known as devoted and gentle companions that do well
with children.
A Groenendal typically needs a large PlexiDor pet door.

“How I and my dogs managed before we bought a PlexiDor dog door I will never know. This is the
best thing I have ever bought for my dogs, and they agree.”
Mr A.– Belgium
8

Belgian Sheepherding Dogs
There are four types of Belgian Sheepherding dogs: the Groenendael,
the Malinois, the Tervuren, and the Lakenois. They are similar in body
and temperament, but differ in coat and region of origin.

The Malinois is alert and filled with energy. Many mistake this
breed for a German Shepherd, especially since the Malinois is
often used by police and military, but it is a completely different
breed.
A Malinois is intelligent, confident, and loves to work. Besides
being great working dogs, they are popular in obedience trials,
herding, sledding, and tracking.

The Tervuren is an elegant and
devoted dog that often excels in
obedience and agility competitions.
It is an outstanding herder that also
does a great job as therapy dog or
guide dog.

The Laekenois is clever, alert, and can be quite protective of
both family and property. They were developed to guard and
tend to flocks. As all working dogs they require ample exercise
and are happiest with a job to do.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Schipperke
The Schipperke is a small dog with foxlike features that
originally worked as companion, watchdog, and vermin
hunter. It often worked on boats - the word “schip” means
boat - and the breed is nicknamed “Little Captain”.
The Schipperke resembles a nordic breed, but it really stems
from a black sheepdog called the Lauvenaar, which was
bred down in size.
This is an active little dog known for being enthusiastic and
joyful. They’re small dogs built for hard work and love to be
included in whatever the family does.

Bloodhound
The Bloodhound is an old breed, and depending on who you ask it might come from
France, Belgium, England, or Scotland. We don’t know exactly how old the breed is, but it
is mentioned in writings from the third century AD as a dog unrivaled for scenting power
and determination.
The ancestors to the Bloodhound are believed to stem from the Mediterranean countries,
and came to western Europe from Constantinople. At the time there were two strains; black
or white. The black dogs were known as the Chien de Saint-Hubert and were bred by monks
at the Saint-Hubert Monestary in Belgium. The white dogs became known as Southern
Hounds. The breed reached its modern form in England.
Bloodhounds are tireless workers for law enforcement, and they are so good at tracking a
scent their work has been accepted in courts of law. They can detect a scent trail left several
days ago, and the average bloodhound has around four billion olfactory receptor cells. The
average human has around five million.
These dogs are affectionate but often shy and sensitive. They enjoy company, both from
other dogs and humans, and they’re known for being easygoing. They require regular
brushing, and all the wrinkles must be kept clean.
A Bloodhound can weigh up to 110 pounds, and will require a large or extra large PlexiDor
dog door depending on the individual.
“The PlexiDor dog door is the greatest thing, it really is. It frees you and your dogs, and you will
experience very little heat loss.”
Eva Kaufman – Ontario, Canada
10

Bouvier des Flandres
The Bouvier des Flandres is an agile and even-tempered herding dog created by farmers and cattle merchants that
needed help with their work.
The breed originated in Flanders - a region
that encompasses the northwestern part of
Belgium and adjacent parts of the Netherlands and France.
Today Flanders refers to the Dutch speaking
northern portion of Belgium, but as far as dog
breeds go the Bouvier could just as well be
considered a Dutch dog.
Early individuals didn’t look much alike, and
sizes and colors varied. They had enough in
common to be called Bouviers, but it took
a while before the breed reached a conform look, and the different types got funny
nicknames, like Vuilbaard which means “Dirty
Beard.”
Bouviers were very popular up until World
War I, but the war devastated the areas where
the dogs were bred and most of the dogs
were abandoned as their families died or fled.
Only a few families managed to stay and keep
their dogs until the war was over.
These dogs are known for being steady,
resolute, and fearless. They make great family
members and guardians that also excel at
herding, obedience, agility, and tracking.
While the dogs are fairly calm indoors, this is
a large working breed and they need lots of
exercise and something to do.
A Bouvier des Flandres typically weighs between 80 and 120 pounds.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

As big a country as Brazil is you might think there
would be many dog breeds native to the country,
but there are only a handful. The Fila Brasileiro is
one of the most well known.
These dogs are completely dedicated to their main
handler and family, and extraordinarily patient with
children and pets that belong to the family. They make
great trackers, hunters, and hurders, and the Brazilian
army has used them for work in the jungle. Through
the breed’s history, the Fila Brasileiro has been used
for everything from guarding gold mines to hunting
jaguars.

Brazil

Other dog breeds from Brazil include the Brazilian Dogo, also called the Brazilian Bull Boxer. These dogs are quite rare with
around 2,000 dogs registered world wide.
The Rastreador Brasileiro was made virtually extinct from an outbreak of disease compounded by an overdose of insecticide. Ever since, efforts have been made to recreate the breed, but this is very difficult since there are so few dogs left of the
right type.

Brazilian Terrier
The Brazilian Terrier is rare outside of Brazil, but one of the most popular in its homeland. The breed stems back to the 1800s when Jack
Russell Terriers arrived to Brazil from Europe. They were bred with Miniature Pinschers, Chihuahuas, and possible other small dog breeds. This
resulted in an alert and energetic dog.
These dogs are known for being intelligent and alert with an abundance of
energy, and they love to play, bark, dig, bark, romp around, bark, and dig
some more. Given the chance, they also enjoy chasing small animals. They
were originally used for vermin control and have developed a unique form
of teamwork where they surround their prey.
Taking their high energy level and intelligence into account, this is a breed
that requires both mental and physical activity. If you want a companion
that is up for hiking, running, power walking, playing, and still has strength
left to chase the cat in the middle of the night, this might be a perfect
choice.
Brazilian Terriers are generally healthy and often live up to 15 years. They
are considered easy to train, but owners should be aware of their high
energy level.

“The PlexiDors are fantastic and I don’t know what I’d do without it. I have King Shepherds
which hover between 110 and 140 pounds, and they love the freedom of going in and out.”
12

Elaine Perry– Delaware

Canada is the home of several well known dog
breeds, such as the Labrador Retriever which is
the most popular dog in many countries around
the world.

Canada

Other popular breeds from Canada include the
Newfoundland, Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever,
and Seppala Siberian Sleddog. They have one thing
in common: they are hard workers.
A number of Canadian breeds are sadly extinct
today, such as the Hare Indian Dog, Salish Wool Dog,
and the St. John’s Water Dog.

Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever
The Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever - or Toller - is
an athletic and intelligent Canadian dog breed with
an abundance of energy. If you want to do something, the Toller is ready for action.
The dogs are believed to stem from a cross of Golden
Retrievers, Chesapeake Bay Retrievers, Labradors, Flat
Coated Retrievers, and farm Collies. There might be a
sprinkle of Irish Setter and Cocker Spaniel in there too.
Tollers were originally used for retrieving from icy
waters, and they have webbed feet along with a water
repellent outer coat. Like most working dogs they
need both physical and mental stimulation to stay
happy and healthy.
If you’re interested in dog sports, the Toller will be
right there by your side. They generally do great in
agility, dock diving, and obedience. Many also work
in search and rescue. The combination of intelligence,
working drive, great sense of smell, and manageable
size make them ideal for the job.
Tollers require little grooming. An occasional brushing
and bath will be enough.
A Toller weighs between 37 and 51 pounds, and a
Large PlexiDor dog door is a perfect companion.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Labrador Retriever
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular
breed of dog not only in its originating country
of Canada, but also in the United States and
the United Kingdom. It is also the most popular
choice for assistance dogs in a number of countries. Many work as guide dogs for the blind, or
as police dogs.
The breed originated in Newfoundland, where
they were used to work with fishermen; the dogs
helped pull in nets and caught fish that escaped
from fishing lines. Since then, the dogs have
been crossed with Setters, Spaniels, and other
retrievers, and the breed has become an ideal
family dog.
Labradors typically love to swim and frolic in
water, and they have webbed paws. Many are
athletic and energetic, and love playing catchand-retrieve games. They are normally cheerful,
get along well with children, and like other pets.
There are three colors of Labradors: yellow, black,
or chocolate, and they normally weigh between
55 and 75 pounds. If you want a dog door for
your Labrador, a PlexiDor large is a perfect match.

Landseer
The Landseer is a Canadian breed named after a British
painter. Sir Edwin Henry Landseer painted “A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society” featuring a
Landseer in the 1830s. Some kennel clubs consider this a
black and white version of the Newfoundland, but many
recognize it as a separate breed.
Landseers are sweet, gentle, and serene. The average
member of the breed loves to swim.

There are two types: The Landseer Newfoundland and the
Landseer European Continental Type. They share the sweet
disposition and love of water, but the European version is taller, has shorter hair, and lack underwool. They also have very
long legs and are both fast and tireless runners.
The Newfoundland version excels at rescuing drowning people and often work with fishermen, hauling heavy nets to the
shore.

“Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My five retrievers can now choose when to go out for
themselves and I don’t have to keep getting up to open the door.”
Mrs. L – Surrey
14

Newfoundland
The Newfoundland is a Canadian dog breed known for their
giant size, calm disposition, loyalty, and strength. The breed was
created to work side by side with fishermen, and these gentle
giants excel at water rescue. They are strong enough to navigate
powerful tides and swim through rough ocean waves, and they
can swim long distances while also being large enough to bring
drowning people ashore.

Newfoundland

Through history, these dogs have performed many tasks. Besides
working with fishermen they’ve hauled wood and powered blacksmith bellows.
Newfoundlands are loyal and make wonderful family dogs. They
are sweet, loving, easy to train, and generally good with children.
However, their mere size can create problems if they’re not trained.
The largest known Newfoundland weighed 260 pounds and measured over 6 feet from nose to tail.
This is a breed that requires daily exercise to stay healthy. They also
need regular brushing.

Landseer

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Quite a few dog breeds stem from China, and the
breeds from this area have often been created for
other reasons than European or American dogs.
Many Chinese breeds are small, and while some
were hunters, others were companions for royalty.

China

Chinese dog breeds include the Shar Pei, Chinese
Crested, Chow Chow, Japanese Chin, Chinese
Chongqing Dog, Pekingese, Pug, Xiasi Dog, and the
Kunming Wolfdog.

Shar-Pei
The Shar-Pei is a wrinkly dog with triangular ears and a blue-black
tongue. There are only two breeds in the world with blue tongues:
the Shar-Pei and the Chow-Chow. Both these breeds stem from
China.
The origins of the Shar-Pei are unknown, but there are images on
pottery in China from the Han Dynasty (206 BC) with strong resemblances to the breed. The breed was originally kept as diverse farm
dogs in the countryside, used for hunting, herding, and guarding.
The dogs were bred for intelligence and strength. The unusual skin
and coat stems back to this time too; the loose skin and prickly coat
helped the dogs fend off wild animals.
The Shar-Pei is known for being calm, independent, and loyal. These
dogs are devoted to their family, but can be reserved amongst
strangers.
Puppies have many wrinkles, but the dogs “grow into” their skin as
they mature, and adults generally only have wrinkles on the face, a
few on their shoulders, and some at the base of the tail. The wrinkles
need some extra care, make sure to keep the skin clean and dry.
An average Shar-Pei weighs up to 64 pounds and requires a Large
PlexiDor dog door.

16

“We are in rescue, and the PlexiDor dog door is used many times throughout the day by 15 dogs.
The largest dog is under under 100 lbs, and the smallest about 8.5 soaking wet. I have never
found a pet door that will take the abuse the PlexiDor does. I am so pleased with this product. It is
worth every penny..”
J. Ochs– Pennsylvania

Chinese Crested
The Chinese Crested is an alert, charming, and affectionate breed believed to have accompanied Chinese sailors all
over the world. They first appear in written history around the 1500s, and even then explorers encountered them in
Central and South America as well as Africa and Asia.
This breed is believed to be an evolution of African hairless dogs, bred down in size by the Chinese. They are the most popular of the hairless breeds, but still considered rare. Most are hairless, but there is a variety with a double, straight, and soft
coat called a Powderpuff. The two types can be seen in the same litter, but the Powderpuff is genetically recessive and will
disappear with time.
Chinese Crested are clever and good at learning tricks. They covet company and need to be a part of the family.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Pekingese
The Pekingese is an ancient breed originally created to resemble stylized Chinese lions. These dogs have changed
little during the ages, and the dogs of today look a lot like the originals. In ancient China, stealing a Pekingese
was punishable by death, and there were long periods of time when common people weren’t allowed to own the
dogs. If someone crossed paths with a Pekingese they were supposed to bow and show respect.
These dogs are known for being good natured, affectionate, and intelligent. They enjoy going for a walks and accompanying their family on adventures, but do not require extensive exercise. They do need regular grooming. If the coat is
held long, the dog must be brushed thoroughly once a week. Many have the coat cut to make it more manageable.
These cheerful little dogs have an average lifespan of 12 years and are fairly healthy. Just be aware that the short nose
means they can’t handle heat well, and they are prone to heatstrokes.
A Pekingese usually weighs between 7 and 14 pounds. A small individual can get by with a small PlexiDor dog door,
but most need a medium PlexiDor dog door.

“Thank you! I have loved my PlexiDor dog door for 15 years! Thank you for such a good product!”
P. Jennings – North Carolina
18

Chow Chow
The Chow Chow comes from Asia and has been traced back to China’s Han dynasty, over 2,000 years ago, and it
is considered one of the oldest recognizable breeds. It is also believed to be the model for the “Foo dogs” - the
traditional stone statues that guard Buddhist temples.
Many recognize the Chow Chow because of its blue tongue - a trait it only shares with the Shar-Pei. No other dog
breeds have blue tongues. This is a sturdy dog with a dense double coat. Chow Chows are generally serious, dignified,
and intelligent. While devoted to family members, they are often uninterested in strangers.
These dogs are adaptable and do well in all sorts of living arrangements. They don’t need extensive exercise, and with
regular walks they can do very well living in apartments. They are also a healthy breed, but they do require regular
grooming. Many Chow Chow owners spend a couple of hours each week brushing their dog.
Depending on gender, a typical Chow Chow weighs somewhere between 45 and 70 pounds, and requires a large
PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Pug
The Pug is one of the oldest dog breeds, and has flourished since at least 400 BC. The earliest mentions of the breed
come from China, where this sturdy and cheerful little dog was a pet of the Buddhist monasteries in Tibet.
This is a lot of dog in a small package. Pugs are even-tempered, loving, charming, and often filled with mischief. They are
curious and love to explore, but don’t need excessive amounts of exercise. A Pug can thrive almost anywhere - as long as
they’re close to the family. For a Pug, the family is the sole reason for living.
Pugs are generally happy. They’re happy living in the country or in the city, amongst children or with the elderly, amongst
other pets or as an only dog. The average Pug doesn’t care where he or she lives, as long as there is love.
The short coat doesn’t need a lot of grooming, but they shed a little. The wrinkles on the forehead and face must be kept
clean and dry. Like all breeds with short snouts, the Pug overheats quickly and can be prone to heatstrokes.
A Pug generally weighs between 14 and a18 pounds and needs a medium PlexiDor dog door.

“The PlexiDor dog door is the greatest thing, it really is. It frees you and your dogs, and you will
experience very little heat loss.”
Eva Kaufman – Ontario, Canada
20

Croatia

Croatia is the home of several dog breeds, and
the most famous is without a doubt the Dalmatian whose spotted appearance has gained
worldwide fame and poluarity.
Other breeds from the region include the agile
and adaptable Croatian Sheepdog, various hunting dogs, and the Tornjak - a mountain sheep dog
known for its calm disposition, self-confidence,
and seriousness. The first written mentions of the
Tornjak date back to the 9th century

Dalmatian
The Dalmatian is the only spotted dog breed. Its true origins are veiled in mists of time, and these dogs have been
credited with many nationalities and names. The spotted dog we know today has gotten its name from Dalmatia - a
historical region of Croatia close to the Adriatic sea - but dogs of this type have appeared all over Europe, Asia, and
Africa. Many believe that the breed originated in India, and
there are dogs looking like Dalmatians on Egyptian tombs
and in ancient ruins as old as 5,000 years.
Dalmatians have had many purposes through history. Some
have been used for hunting, some as dogs of war or border
guardians, and others worked as shepherds. Many dogs can
do these things, but Dalmatians have a unique trait: no other
breed share their talent for running with horses.
Most Dalmatians will fall in behind a horse and cart, or trot
beside the shoulder of a horse even if they’ve never seen one
before. This probably created the breed’s original association
with firemen; it was natural for the dogs to follow horse-drawn
fire engines.
These dogs are energetic and require daily exercise and training. They learn quickly and have excellent memories, and excel
at obedience, agility, and other dog sports. Their endurance
also makes them great search-and-rescue dogs. If you’re considering a Dalmatian, remember their past as coach dogs; they
require a lot of exercise and something to occupy them.
Dalmatian puppies are born white, and their first spots appear
around three weeks after birth. After a month they have most
of their spots, but new ones can appear throughout life.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

The Havanese is the most known dog breed from
Cuba, and the Havana Silk Dog is a variation of the
breed where breeders have attempted to recreate
older depictions of the breed. The Havana Silk
Dog has longer legs, straighter forelegs, a silker
coat, and smaller ears than the Havanese.
In the past, the island was also home to the Dogo
Cubano, or Cuban Mastiff. This large and strong
breed is considered extinct since the end of the 19th
century. Descendants of the breed still exist, but
have been cross bred with Dogo Argentinos and
American Pit Bull Terriers.

Cuba

Havanese
The Havanese is the national dog of Cuba, and its ancestors arrived to the island from Tenerife in the early 16th century. At the time Cuban trade was highly restricted by the Spanish, and Tenerife was one of the few open ports. The
breed has an interesting history even today; every dog that lives outside of Cuba stems from 11 dogs that fled with
their owners at the time of revolution.
This is a small and sturdy breed. Their coat looks warm, but it has developed to insulate and protect the dogs from tropical
sun. They require regular grooming, but do not shed.
Havanese are friendly and become very attached to their families. They are known for being affectionate, intelligent, playful,
and easy to train. This is a quiet breed too; many Havanese never bark, and they get along well with dogs, cats, and other
pets.
A Havanese generally weighs between seven and thirteen pounds, and does well
with a medium PlexiDor dog door.

“I’ve had one of your extra-large PlexiDors for several years and I love it. After having had several
other cheaper doors, this door is absolutely worth every penny.”
Lewis Mills– Jefferson City, Missouri
22

Denmark

In the past, the border between Denmark and
Sweden changed from time to time, and there
is some dispute as to which country certain dog
breeds really belong to.
There are three dog breeds mainly associated with
Denmark: Broholmer, Danish Swedish Farmdog, and
Old Danish Pointer.
The Great Dane is not a Danish dog despite the
name - this breed comes from Germany.

Broholmer
The Broholmer is also called Danish Mastiff. This is a very large Danish dog breed with a loud and impressive bark.
The breed originally comes from a cross
between English Mastiffs and various
German dogs, and the name stems from
Sehested of Broholm who was an 18th
century game keeper.
The Broholmer was nearly extinct after the
second world war, but isolated individuals
were found and Danish enthusiasts saved
the breed.
Broholmer dogs are known for having good
self confidence and being calm, friendly, and
good tempered.
These dogs have an average life span of
7-12 years. Females weigh between 90 to
130 pounds and males 110 to 150 pounds,
and they require an extra large PlexiDor dog
door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Ancient Egypt might be most closely associated with cats,
but dogs were also important, and the Egyptian ancestry
can be seen in many modern dog breeds.
Dogs were held in high esteem, and one of the earliest documented domesticated animals whose name we know came
from Egypt. He was balled Abutiu and lived before 2280 BC.
He is believed to have been a royal guard dog.

Egypt

Some dog breeds with roots in Egypt include the Ibizan
Hound, Basenji, Saluki, and the Pharaoh Hound.

Basenji
The Basenji is an elegant hunting dog with roots in
Africa, and can be traced back to the Pharaohs of
ancient Egypt. They are also known as “the barkless”
dog. Instead of barking, they yodel when excited.
Basenjis are independent, and known for thinking and
making decisions on their own. While extremely intelligent, they can be difficult to train, because they need
to see the point in whatever they’re asked to do.
An average Basenji is alert, curious, and energetic. They
are also athletic and love to climb.
This breed has some habits unusual for dogs. They
don’t like wet weather, they clean themselves all over
like a cat, and they don’t get the “doggy smell.”
The Basenji tends to become emotionally attached to
one person. They accept other family members and are
generally loving and patient with children, but there’s
one person that is “theirs.”
An average Basenji weighs around 24 lbs, and a Medium PlexiDor dog door is the perfect size.

24

“My wife and I own three Leonbergers and three Chinooks. We were constantly replacing flaps
or panels. Then we installed two PlexiDor XL units at our new home. They have functioned
flawlessly and allow our pets 24 hour access to their yard. We are very satisfied that we invested
in a superior product.”
Rick Skoglund – Waldoboro, Maine

Pharaoh Hound
The Egyptian Pharaoh Hound was traditionally used as a companion for hunters from Malta.
Some scientists say there is no DNA evidence for the breed being related to Egyptian dogs,
others claim the breed is related to ancient Egyptian dogs with a lineage back to 3,000 BC.
Pharaoh Hounds are graceful, powerful, and fast. They make pleasant companions who can be
peaceful indoors yet loves to play given an opportunity.
This breed has a unique ability - they blush when excited. The nose and ears get a rosy hue.
Pharaoh Hounds are generally healthy and need little grooming. As their coat is short and thin
they need to live indoors with soft bedding and warmth.

Saluki
The Saluki looks graceful and fragile, but don’t be
fooled by appearances - this is a marathon runner with
great strength and endurance. They run at the speed
of Greyhounds and can keep the pace over distance.
This is the royal dog of Egypt, and the Saluki is believed
to be the oldest breed of domesticated dog. They are
independent, gentle, and loyal, but they work alone. No
one can keep up with a Saluki! They are so fast they’ve
been used to hunt Gazelles - the fastest of Antelopes.
They even have padded feet to minimize the impact of
excessive running.
Their hunting instinct is deeply rooted, and the dogs will
give chase if something runs. When it comes to grooming, they require weekly brushing and an occasional
bath.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Quite a few dog breeds stem from Finland. Many
are nordic type dogs, but not all. Breeds from
Finland include the Finnish Hound, Finnish Lapphund, Finnish Spitz, and Karelian Bear Dog.

Finland

Other breeds from Finland include the Laika, Lapponian Herder and Lapponian Shepherd, the Seskar
Seal Dog that was extinct and recently recreated,
and the Tamaskan Dog.

Karelian Bear
The Karelian Bear is a tenacious hunter with fearless
nature and quick reflexes. They have an instinct for
moving and handling bears safely, and are sometimes
used for non lethal bear control.
The breed is also called Karelsk Björnhund, or its Finnish
name Kerjalankarhukoira. In its homeland, the Karelian
Bear is primarily used as a hunting dog, but it is also a
good breed for search and rescue, and many excel in
obedience trials.
This is a dog breed that prefers to be outside, and they
need plenty of space to move. They are intelligent and
independent, which also means they get bored easily and
need mental stimulation as well as physical.
The average Karelian Bear loves people and children to the
point where they’re prone to separation anxiety. They are
social and want to be with their family to the point where
they can be anxious if left alone.
The breed isn’t common in the USA, but the Washington
department of fish and wildlife employs a few, utilizing
their instinctive abilities for handling bears in a safe
manner.

26

“Your company has outstanding customer service and friendly, knowledgable staff. I just wanted
to write to you and tell you how much I love your doors and how happy they make both me and
my best friends.”
Merry LoCurto

Finnish Spitz
The Finnish Spitz is an intelligent, lively, and friendly dog from Finland that loves spending time with the family and
being active. They get along well with other dogs and are known for loving children.
This is a hunting breed originally created for hunting birds and small game,
but they are often used for hunting moose and even bears. Being a barking
hunting dog, they tend to bark at anything out of the ordinary, and a Finnish
Spitz can bark up to 160 times a minute. There are even barking comptetitions
in Finland!
A Finnish Spitz is generally a healthy dog, and they have an average life span of
11-14 years. Females weigh between 18 and 22 pounds and males between 26
and 28 pounds, and the medium PlexiDor dog door is a perfect match.

Tamaskan Dog

The Tamaskan Dog is a sleddog type dog bred for versatility.
These dogs excel at agility, obedience, and working trials. They
are also good at pulling sleds.
The Tamaskan Dog has been bred to resemble wolves, but they are
dogs. An average Tamaskan Dog weighs
between 55 and 88 pounds, and the breed
is generally healthy.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Many dog breeds come from France, some well
known over the world and others more local.
There is a great variation in dog size and purpose,
from the small Papillon to large working dogs.

France

Breeds from France include the Picardy Spaniel,
Wirehaired Pointing Griffon, Briard, French Spaniel,
French Bulldog, Grand Basset Griffon Vendéen,
Pyrenean Shepherd, and many more.

Papillon
Papillon is the French word for butterfly, and the breed
gets this name from the long hair on the ears that resemble butterfly wings. Some Papillons have drooped ears,
and they are called Phalène, which means moth.
The Papillon is a type of Spaniel, and this breed is one of the
oldest toy spaniels, stemming back to around the year 1500.
These dogs are energetic, clever, and self-assured, and they
learn new things easily. This is an active dog breed and they’re
happiest when they have something to do. Many do very well
in agility or other dog sports. There are individuals who like to
nap with their owner, of course, but the typical Papillon would
much rather be running around with a toy than sitting still.
Papillons tend to be reserved around new people, and just as
with all dog breeds, it’s a good idea to socialize them well from
a young age.
Grooming is fairly easy, because Papillons don’t have an
undercoat. They should be brushed regularly and have a bath
every now and then, but other than that they require little
grooming.

28

“I installed my kitty door in a basement window this summer. The cat finds it easy to use. It is now
-10 with wind chill days and my basement stays nice and warm. No cold air comes through the
cat door. Your pet door is a great product!”
Val Maloney – Milford, CT

Berger Picard
The Berger Picard is a French working dog with roots back to the
ninth century. The breed was used for herding - and for smuggling
contraband across the border between France and Belgium.
Berger Picards are known to be loyal, quiet, and athletic, but they crave
attention, daily exercise, and mental stimulation. They enjoy swimming,
running, and long walks.

Beauceron
The Beauceron is an old French herding dog
used for working sheep and cattle, first mentioned in a manuscript from 1578. They are
still the preferred breed of herding dog in
parts of the country.
Like most herding breeds, the Beauceron has a
lot of energy and needs something to do. They
are eager to learn and easy to train, loving, loyal,
and protective of their families. This breed often
excels at obedience training and police work, and
they are known for being highly intelligent and
brave.
The Beauceron is a large dog, weighing up to 100
pounds, and requires a large PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Pyrenean Shepherd
The Berger des Pyrénées – Pyrenean Shepherd – has worked with sheep herding in southern France since medieval
times. It is mentioned in medieval manuscripts, and often referred to as the “constant companion” due to its loyalty
and tendency to stay by the shepherd’s side through thin and thick.
Pyrenean Shepherds were traditionally paired with a Great Pyrenees that would protect the herd against wild animals. Two
Pyrenean Shepherds are enough to manage a flock
of 1,000 sheep.
The breed comes in two varieties; smooth-faced and
rough-faced. They are intelligent and energetic, and
need a job to do. When herding, a dog easily covers
25 miles every day, and running one tired is almost
impossible. Mental stimulation can make them tired,
and they are great at agility, flyball, and competitive
obedience.
This is not a breed that does well being left alone.
They prefer to be by their human’s side at all times,
and love to follow a person around the house to help
with daily chores. They are very sensitive to a person’s
moods and often seem to read minds. The dogs are
often referred to as enthusiastic, affectionate, and
active.
Pyrenean Shepherds are generally healthy dogs, and
they require little grooming. An occasional bath and
a thorough brushing every few weeks goes a long
way towards keeping their good looks.
A Pyrenean Shepherd is small for being a herding
breed; they usually weight between 15 and 32 lbs,
and do well with a medium PlexiDor dog door.

“I’ve had my PlexiDor since 2000 and it is super tough. My 85 pound weimaraners blast through
the door with mammoth bones and still not a single scratch on the door panels.”
Cassandra Tynes – Gulfport, MS
30

Poodle
The Poodle is an exceptionally smart dog breed that often competes with the Border Collie for top position in lists of
dog intelligence. This friendly breed sheds next to nothing, comes in three sizes, and welcomes all sorts of activities.
Poodles are the national dogs of France, but the breed is actually believed to come from Germany originally. The standard
poodle is the oldest version that was bred down to Miniature and Toy sizes. The words “standard,”“miniature,” and “toy” are
only used to describe the size - all Poodles are one breed.
These dogs were originally water retrievers, and the traditional haircut was designed to help the dogs swim more efficiently.
The patches of hair were intended to protect vital organs and joints. There are many different ways to trim the Poodles’ hair.
Poodles are active dogs and need exercise to stay happy. They do great in many dog sports, as service dogs, and even as
circus performers.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

PlexiDor® Electronic
The ultimate in security and convenience
Whenever security and pet access control are priorities, the PlexiDor®
Electronic door is the preferred choice of pet owners worldwide.
The door has a composite panel that slides up and down like a miniature
garage door. When inactive, the panel acts as a security door.
Using state-of-the-art RFID technology, the sensor reads the pre-programmed code to automatically open and close only for pets equipped with
a programmed collar key. Other animals have to stay outside!
The collar key is waterproof and weighs only 0.4 ounces. It snaps onto the
pet’s collar. The door can be adjusted to control how long the panel stays
open. The PlexiDor® electronic plugs into a standard household power outlet
or can be hardwired. It is easy to program and even easier to use.
This door accomodates dogs up to 125 pounds and all cats.
Visit www.plexidors.com or call 800-249-8045!

• Secure and dependable
• Durable and easy to use
• Energy/money saver
• Door stops everything but your pet
How it works: The PlexiDor® Electronic reads the collar key’s code
and opens only for your pet. The panel unlocks when the key is
within range, and slides up like a miniature garage door. If the
door attempts to close when there’s something in the way, it will
open again and sound an alarm. Your pet will not get stuck in the
door!
PlexiDor® Electronic Pet Doors are covered by a five year limited
warranty. Any defective part will be repaired or replaced without
expense to the customer, including standard shipping charges, for
five years from the purchase date. Local labor is not covered.

32

“I installed your PlexiDor 12 years ago. I have four dogs that have access to the door 24 hours a
day. Needless to say, it has been used jillions of times and I have not had one problem. Thanks for
a great product!”
Debra Rickman – Greenbrier, AR

Barbet
The Barbet is an active, medium-sized water dog from France. This is a breed that enjoys working as well as playing,
and many do very well in dog sports. They are known for their devotion to their human, and most prefer to be glued to
their owner’s side.
There are several theories on the breed’s history. Some claim the earliest references to Barbets in literature really refers to
poodles. Others claim the breed’s history stretches into antiquity. Researchers subscribing to the latter theory believe the
Barbet descends from herding dogs brought to Europe from North Africa with the Moors that occupied the Iberian Peninsula.
This would have been during the 7th and 8th centuries. From
there, the dogs would have followed crusaders over the Pyrenees to central Europe and France.
Other researches who also date the breed back to antiquity
state that the Barbet originated in Asia and found its way to
Eruope over land.
It is difficult to prove either theory, and the truth might very
well be a mix of all of them.
Regardless of its history, these are dogs eager and quick to
learn. As all intelligent breeds they need training and stimulation. They are often joyful and goofy, and love both children
and other pets. Most Barbets love swimming, hiking, and
traveling.
There is a big difference between the Barbet and other dogs;
they have hair much like humans instead of fur. That means
they don’t shed in the same way as most other breeds, but
they require regular combing and trimming.
A barbet weighs between 40 and 60 pounds and needs a large
PlexiDor dog door.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Germans in general love pets, particularly dogs. If
you visit Germany you will see pets everywhere.
There are even public dog swimming pools.
Not surprising, many popular breeds stem from the
country and over forty popular dog breeds have
their roots in Germany. Examples include the Boxer,
Dachshund, Doberman Pinscher, German Shepherd,
Pomeranian, Rottweiler, and Schnauzer.

Germany

American Eskimo
In spite of the name, the American
Eskimo is a German dog. It was
originally called German Spitz, but
the breed received a new name
after the First World War to keep its
popularity up. The Eskie is a popular
watchdog and companion. They
also have a remarkable sense of balance and can often be seen as circus
performers.
The American Eskimo looks a lot like
a Samoyed or a Japanese Spitz, but
these dogs have a completely different temper. They were originally bred
to guard property and people, and
they are valiant watchdogs when the
occasion calls for it. They are devoted
to their family and don’t appreciate
being left alone.
Regular exercise is a must, as is regular brushing and bathing.
There are three sizes; Toy, which
normally weighs around 10 pounds,
Miniature which weighs around 20
pounds, and Standard which weighs
around 30 pounds. All sizes do well
with a medium PlexiDor dog door.

“We’ve had four 120+ pound dogs banging through the door no less than 50 times a day. You
make a great product, please keep up the good work!”
Jim Grace
34

German Shepherd
The German Shepherd was originally developed for herding and guarding sheep, but its intelligence and extraordinary focus on any task at hand has made it a popular choice for police and military all over the world.
German Shepherds are strong, smart, loyal, and eager to please. They have been ranked third dog breed when it comes to
intelligence - right after Border Collies and Poodles.
This is a breed that excels at guarding. They are protective towards family and home, and most of them are suspicious
against strangers.
The German Shepherd is the most popular breed in a number of American cities, such as Buffalo, Chicago, Cincinatti,
Detroit, and Miami. It is the third most popular breed in Seattle, Houston, and Portland, and the second most popular in
Boston and Philadelphia.
German Shepherds normally weigh between 75 and 95 pounds, and need a large PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Dachshund
The Dachshund is a lively and friendly dog breed with German origin. The breed stems back to the 1600s, and the
dogs were bred to be tough and fearless enough to dig underground and fight badgers.
Dachshunds are enthusiastic, playful, and loving. They require moderate exercise and generally do well with children. This
breed tends to get bored easily, so be prepared to keep your furry friend busy and load up with fun toys.
There are three different coat varieties: smooth, wire-haired, and long haired. Both the smooth and wire-haired dachshunds
shed very little. The dogs can come in standard size or miniature.
A standard Dachshund weighs between 16 and 32 pounds, and a medium PlexiDor dog door is a good choice. A miniature
weighs under 11 pounds. Some can use a small PlexiDor, but most will require a medium.

“The pet doors have paid for themselves tenfold and the dogs love them. We’re extremely happy
with the decision to purchase PlexiDors.”
Roger Goedde
36

Leonberger
The Leonberger is a very large dog known for being friendly and eager to please. The breed originated in Germany in
the 1800s, and they are wonderful family dogs. Many also excel as working dogs in many fields, particularly as therapy
dogs.
When looking at a Leonberger, speed and agility might not be words that come to mind, but these dogs are surprisingly
energetic, light on their feet, and agile. They need exercise, but to well in all sorts of living quarters. To a Leonberger, being
with the family is more important than having lots of room.
Most Leonbergers love to swim - they even have webbed feet - and they are good at water rescue. They are also generally
good with children and other pets; they were originally bred to be reliable family dogs.
They are related to Newfoundlands as well as Pyrenean Mountain Dogs and St. Bernards, and they have a thick coat that
sheds profusely. A Leonberger owner should be prepared for brushing the dog on a regular basis.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Doberman Pinscher
The Doberman Pinscher stems from the town of Apolda, Germany, and the breed was first created in the late
18th century. The creator, Karl Friedrich Louis Dobermann, served as tax collector and he needed a companion
that had to be strong, fast, loyal, and intelligent.
To reach his goal, he bred many different kinds of dogs together including the Beauceron, Rottweiler, Greyhound,
Great Dane, and the Weimaraner. The exact mix of dogs is unknown today.
The dogs are known for a their loyalty, intelligence, and high trainability. They are considered working dogs, and
many serve as police dogs and military dogs. Their energetic, fearless, and obedient nature make them perfect for
the job. They also make fantastic canine athletes.
These dogs have a short coat and only need minimal grooming. They do need plenty of exercise - they are considered very active and need something to do to stay healthy and happy.
Dobermans are large dogs and require a large PlexiDor dog door.

38

“This door is fantastic. My old door deteriorated after about a year of use with the rubber flap
ripping, falling out, and letting in the cold air during the winters. With the PlexiDor the rear of my
house is no longer cold due to drafts, and it’s easier for my pets to use. Also, it looks much, much
nicer. This door is worth every penny.”
Jeanne Drust

Rottweiler
The Rottweiler is a robust breed who likes
to have a job to do. The dogs are intelligent
and self-confident, and often used as police
dogs, service dogs, therapy dogs, or even as
herders.
The breed is believed to stem back to ancient
Rome, and arrived to Europe with Roman
invading forces. Whey they reached Germany,
the locals appreciated the dogs’ herding and
guarding instincts, and kept breeding them to
enhance these skills.
Rottweilers are believed to have herded
animals in Germany for at least 2,000 years,
until the industrial revolution took over and
the dogs’ services were no longer needed. The
breed nearly fell extinct, but a breed club was
formed in the early 1900s and saved it.
Rottweilers love their family and are generally
good-natured and patient. They need a lot of
exercise, but little grooming.
Females generally weigh between 77 and
105 pounds and do well with a large PlexiDor.
Males weigh up to more than 130 pounds and
need an extra large PlexiDor dog door.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

The Vizsla is probably the most popular dog
breed associated with Hungary, but many
working breeds come from this area.
Hungarian dog breeds include the Komondor,
Kuvasz, Mudi, Puli, and the Transylvanian Hound.

Hungary

Mudi
The Mudi is a Hungarian herding breed that stems back to the 15th
century. Many confuse it with the Pumi or the Croatian Puli, some
even call the breed Puli, and the breeds share a common past.
This is a fascinating breed because it was discovered as a naturally
occurring shepherd’s type of dog. It might be a natural mix of the
Pumi, Puli, and German Spitz type of dogs. The Mudi breed counts as
naturally developed, and this is the last natural breed of its kind that
still works with livestock and shepherds.
Many claim that this is one of the best herding breeds. The Mudi also
makes a good companion, watchdog, and hunting dog. Like most
herding breeds it does very well in various sports; these are great dogs
for agility.
An average Mudi loves to play and swim. They will easily learn to play
ball or frisbee, and they make great jogging companions.
The breed is great for families with children, houses with yards, and
active people. Just watch out if the dog is left alone outside; they are
notoriously good diggers and can dig their way under a fence.
A Mudi generally weighs between 17 and 29 pounds and a medium
PlexiDor dog door is a perfect match.

40

“I purchased an extra large dog door and just wanted to let you know how incredible it is! I have
a 135 lb Rottweilser and a 100 lb American BullDog that are trying their best to break the acrylic
panes. I think the house will come down before the dog door!”
Britt Autry– Aurora, CO

Vizsla
The Viszla is a dog breed originating in Hungary, known for being athletic and loyal companions. The breed is also
called Hungarian Pointer.
This is a natural hunter equipped with an excellent nose and outstanding trainability. They are lively, gentle mannered, and
affectionate, but also fearless and protective when need be. Some people call them “velcro dogs” because of their loyalty
and affection.
The ancestors of the Vizsla are assumed to have been hunters accompanying Magyars to central Europe over a thousand
years ago. The breed is depicted in etchings that date back to the 10th century, and manuscripts from the 14th century.
A Vizsla thrives on attention, exercise, and interaction. They are often vocal. They sing along with the radio, and cry when
they feel neglected.
The Viszla generally weighs between 40 and 66 lbs, and requires a Large PlexiDor Dog Door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Komondor
The Komondor is a Hungarian breed that arrived to Europe from Asia between the years 900-1100. It is descended
from Tibetan dogs, and has worked with sheep and cattle in Hungary for over 1,000 years.
This is a herding breed, but rather than rounding up herds or flocks, the Komondor follows the animals and protects them,
usually without assistance from a human. Here, the eye-catching coat has a practical purpose; it helps protect the dog in
case of attack. Wolves are not able to bite through the thick coat.
The Komondor is a very large breed that often grows over 30 inches tall. They’re known to be calm and steady when things
are normal, and they are responsible and loving towards their families. If there’s trouble, the dog will defend its charges.
Komondors have been bred to think and act independently and make decisions on their own, which can create problems in
the modern world if the dog isn’t trained. Training sessions need to be upbeat and happy, and the dogs thrive on praise.
These dogs often rest during daytime, and patrol during night time. If a Komondor would discover an intruder, they’re
known to knock them down and keep them down. Hungarian Komondor breeders say, “an intruder may be allowed to
enter, but he will not be allowed to leave.”
The Komondor requires daily exercise and obedience training. They don’t shed much, but they need help in separating the
cords so the coat doesn’t turn into a huge, matted mess. They need baths just like all dogs, but the coat needs about two
and a half days to dry.

42

“My English Bulldog loves the door, and so do I. It was so easy to install, and it operates very quietly. I am amazed at how air-tight this door is. There is no problems with drafts. I highly recommend it to all my friends with pets.”
Nancy Pack – Corbin, KY

Hungarian Puli
The Puli is a Hungarian dog breed used for herding and guarding livestock. The dogs are fairly small and easily
recognizable because of their long, corded, and waterproof coat.
These dogs are active and intelligent.
They may look bulky and slow, but the
thick coat hides a dog that is fast, agile,
and able to turn around corners like a
sports car.
Many Pulis keep a playful behavior their
entire life, but they can also be quite
focused if they have a job to do. If you’re
considering a Puli, remember that this is
a herding breed, and they will herd.
This is an old breed, believed to have
been introduced to Hungary more than
1,000 years ago when they migrated
with the Magyars from Central Asia. The
breed itself is believed to date back at
least 2,000 years, and some scientists
believe it may be as old as 6,000 years.
In Hungary, the Puli would often work
together with the Komondor. The Puli
herded and guarded the sheep at day,
getting help from the Komondor if large
predators attacked. The Komondors
would keep guard at night, patrolling
the area around the flock.
Pulis are generally black, but they can
also be white, gray, or cream.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Quite a few dog breeds have originated in Ireland,
and many of them are popular around the world
today.
Dog breeds from Ireland include the Glen of Imaal
Terrier, Irish Setter, Irish Wolfhound, Kerry Blue
Terrier, and the Irish Water Spaniel. There is also a
Kerry Beagle that stems from Ireland, and this breed
is believed to be one of the oldest Irish Hounds.

Ireland

Glen of Imaal Terrier
The Glen of Imaal Terrier is a tough and small terrier breed native to Ireland, stemming back to the 16th century. They
were originally bred to keep homes and farms free from vermin, and to hunt badgers and foxes.
According to the lore, these dogs had one more important
job, and they would be the only dogs in the world specifically
bred to perform it: they were turnspit dogs.
A turnspit is a large wheel that the dog would paddle, and
the wheel turned a spit over the hearth, like a dog-powered
rotisserie. It is difficult to verify today whether this is true
or not, but it might be.
These dogs are considered a “big dog on short legs” and
weigh around 36 lbs. They’re known to be active, agile,
and intent on whatever they’re doing, and as many other
terriers, they can have a mind of their own. However, they
don’t bark much. They love activity, but can relax indoors,
and do well in families with older children.
The first Glen of Imaal Terriers to arrive to the USA came
with their owners in the 1930s. They’re not amongst the
most common breeds today, but there is a breed club.
The Glens are generally strong and healthy with an
average life span of 15 years.

44

“My dogs race each other to see who gets through the PlexiDor first. The door is still good as
new, 4 years later! I get extreme cold and extreme heat/humidity in Michigan, and my door has
performed beautifully.”
Noura Bashshur – MI

Irish Wolfhound
The Irish Wolfhound is the tallest dog breed. The current world record holder of tallest dog is a Great Dane, but taking
an average of individuals in a breed, the Irish Wolfhound would win without contest. They are also superb athletes
with great stamina, and they can run quickly for long periods of time.
This breed has been around for a long time – the oldest references stem back to Roman records from around 390 AD. Today,
many think the name comes from the dogs’ ragged appearance, but they were originally bred to hunt wolves. These versatile dogs would hunt with their humans, fight in battle, guard homes, and play with the children.
Irish Wolfhounds are known for being calm, kind, dignified, and courageous. This is not a breed that gets into trouble, but
they do have hunting instinct and will give chase. It might be tempting to think a dog this size would make a great guard
dog, but except being big they’re much too friendly to work as watch dogs or patrol dogs. A typical Irish Wolfhound will
think the best of all people, unless their own humans are physically attacked.
The mere size of the breed can be a challenge for owners – a Wolfhound standing on the hind legs can reach seven feet. The
coat doesn’t require much grooming, but dogs this size require lots of room, lots of exercise, and a big car.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Kerry Blue Terrier
The Kerry Blue Terrier originated in Ireland, and has been used for hunting, retrieving, and herding both sheep and
cattle. The Irish commoners developed the Kerry when the nobility started to use Irish Wolfhounds to protect their
hunting grounds from poachers. The Kerry Blue Terrier helped the commoners to keep hunting, in silence, without
risking discovery.
These dogs have a distinctive appearance with a soft, dense, and wavy coat. They shed very little, but still require regular
grooming and should be brushed and trimmed regularly. As adults they’re gray, but the puppies are born black and their
coat will fade until their around 18 months old.
Kerry Blue Terriers are energetic and active dogs that do best
in active families. They love to dig and to chase things, and
they require lots of exercise. Without both physical and mental
stimulation they get bored and can become destructive. This
breed was created to work, and they do best with a job to do.
A typical Kerry loves people and is devoted to the family,
but owners should be aware that the breed still has a strong
hunting instinct. Early socialization with other dogs, cats, and
other animals is a must to get a dog that will get along with
others. These dogs can be quite stubborn as well, and require
training.
A Kerry Blue Terrier weighs between 33 and 40 lbs and most
will do great with a medium PlexiDor dog door. Large
individuals might need a large PlexiDor dog door.

46

“Wind up here often blows at a steady 30-40 mph, but the door stays shut and the room warm. A
few moths ago we had a very bad hail storm with over $11,000 damage to siding and roof. The
door stayed shut!”
Susan Owen – Mandan, ND

Israel is only associated with one dog breed, but
the breed is mighty and has seen and survived the
birth of at least three religions. The Canaan dog
today is basically the same as the dogs mentioned
in the Bible, and it is one of the most ancient
breeds in existence.

Canaan Dog
The Canaan Dog is considered a natural dog
breed, which means it has developed with little
selective breeding from humans. These dogs have
been in existence for at least 2,000 years, and the
breed might be even older. There are drawings of
dogs looking just like it dated back to 2,200 BC.
This was the guard and herding dog of the ancient
Israelites, and when then they were dispersed by
the Romans over 2,000 years ago, the dogs avoided
extinction in the Negev Desert. Some lived with the
Bedouins, and some were used as guard dogs for
the Druze people.
Today the Canaan Dog is quite rare. There are
somewhere between 2,000 and 3,000 Canaan dogs
in the world.
Being herding dogs and guard dogs they can be
territorial and are often reserved with strangers, but
they are also quite affectionate with their families.
Canaan dogs are versatile and intelligent. They are
easy to train, but quite independent, and they need
both physical and mental stimulation to stay happy.
They are often seen winning agility trials, competing
in flyball, or doing well in obedience.
The Canaan dog is generally tan or black-and-white
with curled tail, pricked, pointy ears and almond-shaped
brown eyes.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Israel

PlexiDor® Door Unit
Easy and Professional Door Installation

The PlexiDor® Door Unit has a frame
made to fit a standard exterior house
door. The frame will protect the cut-out
edges of a solid wood or metal door, and
eliminate the need to frame in a hollow
core door.
Tools needed for installation are: saw, drill,
and screwdriver.

Small
The small door is ideal for cats up to 24 lbs and dogs up to 9 lbs. This is a single panel design, and the energy
efficient acrylic thermopanel opens from left to right with precision smoothness. Even the smallest kitten or
puppy can push the door open.
This door has a spring-loaded 4-way lock. It can be set to IN ONLY, OUT ONLY, IN AND OUT, or LOCKED. The small
units do not come with a steel security plate.

Medium
This is a perfect door for dogs up to 40 lbs. The door has shatter resistant, dual thermo-pane acrylic panels that
open with a gentle push and close tight without banging. Each panel is lined around all four edges with snug
fitting, high density, industrial weather seal. The door provides superior draft control.

Large
The large door shares the design and features of the medium door, but is intended for dogs weighing up to 100
lbs. Just like all PlexiDors, it reduces air conditioning and heat loss.

Extra Large
The panels on the PlexiDor PD Door XL and PD Wall XL are manufactured using a solid 3/₈” sheet of shatter resistant
acrylic, and they are virtually indestructible. The door is suitable for larger dogs up to 220 lbs. The panels also
come equipped with factory installed chew proof aluminum trim around all four edges and on both sides of the
panel.

“This is the first testimonial I have ever written for a product I have bought. I had to write it, because it was so well deserved. The door is worth every penny and then some!”
Giesele G. Matthews – Kirkwood, MO
48

PlexiDor® Wall Unit
The best way to install a pet door through a wall
The PlexiDor® Wall Unit will give you a professional grade wall installation.
The Wall Units can be installed into stud, brick, block, or cement walls up to 12 inches thick. Each wall
unit includes a sloped aluminum tunnel that connects the interior and exterior frame. The tunnel materials
ensure a professional fit and finish.

Aluminum
Tunnel
The bottom tunnel
section is sloped to
prevent water from
entering. The tunnel
will not rust, and is
easy to keep clean.

The tunnel is 12 inches deep. You trim it down to the
width you need with included jigsaw blade or tin snips.

A Large PlexiDor® Wall Unit fits
exactly between studs 16” on
center
Tools needed for installation are:
jigsaw, drill, and screwdriver. A
jigsaw blade is included with the
unit.
You can also build a tunnel like
the tunnels used for the windows
in your home, and install a
PlexiDor® door unit in the tunnel.
A Large PlexiDor® Wall Unit fits
exactly between studs 16” on
center
Tools needed for installation are:
jigsaw, drill, and screwdriver.
An aluminum jigsaw blade is
included with the unit.
You can also build a tunnel like
the tunnels used for the windows in
your home, and install a PlexiDor®
door unit in the tunnel.

Exterior view
(outside of home)

Interior view
(inside of home)

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Around thirty dog breeds have their roots in Italy,
or are at least related to the area. Many are specialized, like the Cirneco dell’Etna that has been
used to hunt together with ferrets.

Italy

Dog breeds from Italy include the Bergamasco
Shepherd, Bolognese, Cane Corso, Volpino Italiano,
Maltese, Lagotto Romagnolo, Italian Greyhound,
and more.

Volpino Italiano
The Volpino Italiano is a small spitz type of dog from Italy. It is related to other European spitz breeds such as the
American Eskimo, and many of these breeds have developed side by side through the past 4,000 years.
In the past, the Volpino would be used as guard dog.
The dogs are too small to be much of a threat to an
intruder, but they would work in pairs with mastiffs. If
the alert Volpino sensed any danger they would bark to
get help from the large dog.
The Volpino Italiano has been called the dog of
Michelangelo and the breed was historically very
popular in Italy, but almost died out during the mid
20th century. Today there are around 2,000 Volpinos
around the world.
They are known for being energetic and friendly. These
dogs get tightly attached to their families, and they are
intelligent, happy, lively, and playful. It is a hardy and
healthy breed with an average life expectancy of 14 to
16 years.
An average Volpino generally weighs between 9 and
12 lbs, so a small individual might get by with a small
PlexiDor dog door, but the majority will need a medium PlexiDor dog door.

50

“When I installed the door I wondered how long it would actually last. Prior to this we’ve had two
other doors from other manufacturers, and one lasted for only three hours before being broken
beyond repair. We’ve had your door since 2002 without a single problem. It withstands daily use
from two 80-pound dogs.”
Brian G. Kelly

Bergamasco
The Bergamasco is believed to be a descendant of longhaired sheep dogs brought to Italy by the Phoenicians. This
intelligent and hard working breed can be traced back almost 7,000 years.
The most eye-catching aspect of the breed is the unusual felted coat. It consists of three types of hair: a fine, dense, and
oily undercoat, long hairs similar to a goat’s, and a wooly outer coat. The mats “set” at age one, and after that the coat
requires little maintenance. A Bergamasco should be bathed 1-3 times per year. They shed very little, and should not be
brushed.
Bergamascos are known for being very sociable and having a strong work ethic. They think independently and are very
intelligent. If you want a subordinate to the other members of the family, a Bergamasco is not a good choice; they tend
to see themselves more as an equal that works together with the humans.
This breed is also known for its almost supernatural hearing, and for being good judges of character. As long-time
protectors of herds they can predict violence, and they are reliable predictors of approaching visitors and violent behavior.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Cirneco dell’Etna
The Cirneco dell’Etna comes from Sicily, and has been present in Italy for at least 2,500 years. Images of the breed has
been found on old coins dated back to around 500 BC when Greece colonized Sicily.
Etna is the largest active volcano in Europe, and these dogs are bred to work on rugged terrain formed by volcanic lava.
They hunt small mammals and fowl, and can withstand heat for hours with no food or water. The traditional way of hunting
pairs the Cirneco with a ferret. The breed has an extraordinary sense of smell, and when the dog found rabbits, the ferret
would flush them out.
This breed has developed with little manipulation from humans, and they are very hardy. They are known to be independent and strong, but also affectionate and friendly with people. They are are intelligent, and require mental stimulation as
well as exercise. The average Cirneco dell’Etna is a great jumper and digger, and it is important to keep a yard secure.

“I have nine Rottweilers and a cat that bang (not walk) through the door a thousand times every
day and night. It is incredible how much wear and tear these doors will take.”
Sandra Jones
52

Dogs native to Japan are generally of the northern
type, and breed differences lie in sizes, colors,
users, and other minor differences.

Japan

While the Japanese breeds are undisputably separate
breeds, they are still so much alike that in Japan
they’re often shown in one classification divided
into sub groups.
Some breed considered Japanese, like the Japanese
Spitz, Japanese Chine, and Japanese Terrier have
ancestors from other parts of the world. Others, like
the Hokkaido dog, Shiba Inu, Kai Ken, Kishu dog,
and Shikoku Inu, have a long history and are all
created by ancient Japanese hunters.

Japanese Spitz
The Japanese Spitz was developed in Japan in the 1920s by
breeding other Spitz type dogs together. It started with white
German Spitz dogs that were bred with other dogs from
around the world.
The Japanese Spitz was exported to Sweden in the early 1950s
and is still a common breed there. From Scandinavia they went to
England, and has since spread around the world.
An average Japanese Spitz is active, smart, and loyal, and they
are known for being brave and devoted. Despite their small size
they’re alert watch dogs and tend to bark at strangers. They are
generally good with children, and enjoy being active with their
family. The breed was created to be companions, and they want
to be close to their people.
This is a healthy breed with a life expectancy of ten to sixteen
years.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Tosa
The Tosa is a Japanese breed of dog, at least 1,000 years old. They were traditionally used for dog fighting, and
through the centuries the breed has changed from a small spitz type to today’s large and muscular dog.
Before the start of WWII there were thousands of Tosa breeders in Japan,
but when the country entered the war they made dog fighting illegal. In
an attempt to discourage illegal fights, raising dogs of 150 lbs was also
made illegal. The breed would have gone extinct, but a few of the most
passionate breeders smuggled the last remaining dogs to northern Japan
and hid them until the end of the war.
Today, the breed has split into two groups. The Japanese bred are smaller and
generally weighs between 80 and 135 lbs. Non-Japanese bred weigh between
135 and 200 lbs. With such a massive size it’s a good thing that they’re known
for having a stable temperament. Back in the day when the Tosa was bred for
dog fighting they had to be quiet, because Japanese rules demanded silence.
To this day they rarely bark, but when they do it’s a deep rumbling sound
that combined with the massive size efficiently keeps intruders away.
These dogs are known to be fearless, brave, and
intelligent. They are loyal to their family, but like
all breeds they require training and socialization.

Kai Ken
The Kai Ken is a Japanese breed that is considered rare even in
its own country. They are intelligent, alert, brave, and agile, and
known for being reserved with strangers while loyal to their
families.
The Kai is a natural hunter, quick to learn, healthy, and athletic. The
average Kai Ken loves to swim, and they can cross rivers and even
climb trees. The average life span ranges from twelve to well over
fifteen years.
This is considered the most ancient and purest dog breed in Japan,
developed in a district isolated by mountains and water, and the
Kai Ken was designated a “Natural Treasure” in Japan in 1934. The
dogs are protected by law.

“The PlexiDor is everything you said it was and more. The nicest part is that it doesn’t allow all the
drafts we experienced with our old pet door.”
J. Foster – Florida
54

Akita
The Akita is a working breed from Japan, known for its
unfaltering loyalty to its family. There are many stories
of the loyalty of an Akita, and the breed was declared
a Japanese Natural Monument in 1931. Considered a
national treasure, there is even an Akita Dog Museum
that houses information, documents, and photos.
World War II pushed the breed close to extinction, and after
the war the Japanese Akita and American Akita began to
take different paths. American Akitas have become larger
and heavier, while the Japanese breeders have focused on
maintaining the national monument’s original appearance.

An Akita thrives on human companionship. These dogs
can be goofy and silly when around their family, and are
miserable if not allowed to be with their humans. They are
intelligent and independent thinkers, powerful, alert, and
courageous.
These dogs are popular for performance sports and therapy
work. In Japan they’re often used as hunting dogs, and they
are nick-named the “Silent Hunter” because even though
they are quite able to bark, they rarely do.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

A handful of dogbreeds has originated in Korea; the
Jeju dog, Korean Jindo, Nureongi, Pungsan Dog, and
Sapsali. Of these, the Jindo is the most known in the
west.

Korea

The Pungsan dog is a hunting dog named after the
northern county of Pungsan. They are a very rare breed
mixed with wolf known to be loyal to their owners
while ignoring everyone else. The breed is famous for
cleverness and loyalty.
The Sapsali is believed to dispel ghosts and evil spirits,
and has been designated as a national treasure. They
are known for being extremely patient and congenial towards other animals as well as humans.
The Jeju Dog was brought back from the edge of extinction in 1986 when three of them were found on the entire island of
Jeju. Since then an aggressive breeding campaign have yielded a population of around 300. The Nureongi is a breed not
normally kept as pets.

Jindo

The Jindo gets its name from the Korean Jindo island. The breed is believed to be ancient, and the dogs are known for
being loyal and brave. In Korea, the Jindo is considered a national treasure.
The breed divided into two groups. The Tonggol or
Gyupgae are stocky, muscular, and have a deep chest.
This version of the breed has an equal proportion of
height at the withers and length. The Hudu or Heutgai
are slender with less deep chest. Nowadays the Korean
National Dog Association recognizes one more body
type; the Gakgol which is a combination of the Tonggol
and the Hudu.
The dogs come in five colors. White, Fawn, Grey, Black
and tan, or Brindle.
Jindos are highly intelligent, independent, and strong
willed. They tend to be suspicious towards strangers,
but are loving and protective towards the family. They
make great pets as long as they have mental and
physical stimulation and interaction with people or
another dog.
The breed’s loyalty is the basis of Korean cartoons,
documentaries, and even children’s storybooks.

56

“It is great to deal with a company that is not trying to rip people off. My dogs absolutely love the
door. I will not hesitate to recommend your company to anyone looking for a good product and
an honest company.”
C. Andrade

Malta is a mediterranean island, and one of the
world’s smallest and most densely populated
countries. The island has two official languages:
Maltese and English.
Two dog breeds are closely associated with Malta;
the Maltese and the Egyptian Pharaoh Hound. Some
scientists say the latter is related to domesticated
Egyptian dogs traced back to 3000 BC. Others say
the Pharaoh Hound comes from Malta and that
there’s no DNA evidence proving the breed is related
to the Egyptian dogs. Read more about the Pharaoh
Hound on page 25.

Maltese
The Maltese is a gentle and affectionate toy breed known for being playful, lively, and fearless. These clever little dogs have been considered
dog aristocracy for 3,000 years and the breed has a rich history.
Other small breeds have been bred down from larger sizes, but the first
Maltese were the same size as the dogs of today, and even though they’re
small, Maltese tend to be brave.
The long and silky coat lacks an undercoat and the breed sheds next to
nothing. Many choose to cut the coat to minimize the amount of brushing.
These dogs are lively and playful, and generally cuddly.
They like company and adore their humans.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Malta

Mexico is mainly associated with the Chihuahua
and the Xoloitzcuintli, also called Mexican Hairless
Dog.
Many also associate Mexico with the Chinese
Crested, because of genetic evidence showing
the breed shares the origin of the Xoloitzcuintli.

Mexico

Chihuahua
Chihuahuas are generally considered the smallest
dog breed. There are two main varieties: short
haired and long haired.
The Chihuahua gets its name from the Mexican
state Chihuahua. Pictures resembling the breed
has been found on ancient paintings, and the
dogs are believed to be decendent from a dog
indigenous to Central America called the Techichi.
Chihuahuas are alert and energetic, but they still
require little exercise, because they’re so small.
A stroll for a human is a long way to walk for a
Chihuahua. While they like to run and play, they
also love sitting curled up on their favorite human’s
lap.They make great city dogs and require little
grooming.
One thing to keep in mind is that these small dogs
are fragile. They need to be treated with care, and
small children might be too rough and hurt the
dog. They were bred to thrive in a warm climate,
and many dislike cold. They tend to seek out
sunshine or burrow themselves down under piles
of blankets.
These dogs are clever and enthusiastic, and usually
have large personalities.

58

“The PlexiDor pet door looks nice on both the inside and outside of the house – better than I
thought it would. And we’ve had -34 C this year after it was installed with no draft from the door.
The front of the door didn’t feel any cooler than the rest of the wall next to it. Well insulated.”
Kaylendra – Canada

Xoloitzcuintli
The Xoloitzcuintli is a rare and old dog breed. Some sources claim it is the world’s oldest, and rarest. It is believed to
be the first dog of the Americas and came across the Bering Strait together with the first humans migrating to the
continent.
The exotic name comes from the Aztec god Xolotl combined with the Aztec word for dog: Itzcuintli. The breed is also called
“Mexican Hairless” or “Tepezcuintli.”
The Xolo is reputed to be a healer, and in the past its presence has been believed to cure rheumatism, asthma, toothaches,
insomnia, and more. They are also believed to guard the home from evil spirits as well as human intruders. The Aztecs believed the Xolo was tasked with bringing souls to the afterlife.
These dogs make great companions, and are generally calm, tranquil, loyal, and intelligent.
There are three sizes of the Xolo: Toy stands 10-14 inches at the shoulder, Miniature 14-18 inches, and standard, 18-23 inches. With a size range between 10 and 50 pounds, most Xolos will be able to use a medium PlexiDor, but some might need a
large door.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Morocco is located in west Africa, and this is one
of only three countries that have coastlines facing
both the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. It looks
like a small country on a map, but that’s just because
Africa is so big. Morocco has a population of over 35
million people.

Morocco

Famous dog breeds from Morocco include the Sloughi
and the Aidi. The Sloughi is an energetic hound used
for hunting that often works together with the Aidi.

Aidi
The Aidi – or Atlas Mountain Dog – is a Moroccan
dog breed. It is also called Chien de l’Atlas. This is an
energetic working dog believed to have originated
in Sahara.
In its homeland, the Aidi often protects herds of sheep
and goats. They are also good at hunting and tracking scents. For hunting, an Aidi is often paired with
a Sloughi, a type of hound that chases down prey
tracked by the Aidi. The breed is gaining popularity as
city pet, but most of them are still hard workers, either
in the countryside or as police dogs.
A typical Aidi is highly protective, alert, powerful, and
always ready for action. As many working dogs, it does
best with an experienced owner and a job to do. They
need ample amounts of exercise, long daily walks, and
prefer to have a large yard.
These dogs can come in a variety of colors and color
combinations. They’re considered healthy, and have
an average life span of 12 years. A typical Aidi weighs
around 50-55 lbs, and requires a large PlexiDor dog
door.

“Boone, my Brittany, has used one of your PlexiDor dog door wall units for four years. The door is
still as good as new, and I’ve performed no maintenance on it. It is flawless.”
J. Rades
60

The Netherlands is a small country when it comes
to surface, but it is rich in culture and dog breeds.
Amongst the reeds associated with the Netherlands
you will find popular breeds like the Keeshond and
Stabyhoun along with less known such as the Dutch
Shepherd, Drentse Patrijshond, and the Saarloos
Wolfdog.

The Netherlands

Kooikerhondje
The Kooikerhondje is a Dutch breed stemming back
to the 1500’s. They are also known as Dutch Decoy
Dogs and were traditionally used to drive ducks into
a trap where the hunter could easily get them. Their
name comes from the hunter, who was called Kooiker. The dogs were called the Kooiker’s hondjes – the
Kookier’s dogs – and this became the name of the
breed.
These dogs are known for being cheerful, well behaved, friendly, and eager to please. They make great
family dogs who adapt quickly and have the ability to
change behavior from quiet to lively as the situation
calls for it.
Since they are a hunting breed, they love outdoor life
and need exercise to stay healthy and happy. They
need a daily long walk or jog. Even though they can be
happy in an apartment, they prefer a fenced in backyard. Just like all working dogs, the Kooikerhondje gets
bored easily, and they require stimulation. It’s much
better to give them a task than allow them to make up
some form of “work” of their own.
They usually reach a height of 14-16 inches, and can
weigh up to 40 lbs. The average life span is 12-14 years.
Today, they’re often used as service dogs, and for
search and rescue. They also excel at agility and obedience. Kooikers are believed to be ancestors to the Nova
Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Keeshond
The Keeshond is a medium-sized Dutch dog characterized by a lion-like ruff. It is a member of the spitz family of dogs,
and descends from the same arctic strains as the Samoyed, Chow Chow, Norwegian Elkhound, Finnish Spitz, and
Pomeranian.
These dogs are generally playful with strong jumping ability and quick reflexes. They are quick to learn and eager to please,
a combination that makes them excellent agility and obedience dogs.
Keeshonden get along well with children, and they like to be close to their humans whenever possible. While not aggressive to visitors they do announce newcomers loudly, and have been used as watch dogs through Europe.
The breed has a reputation for great empathy and are often used as comfort dogs. At least one Keeshond was at Ground
Zero on 9/11 to help comfort rescue workers.
The average Keeshond weighs between 30 and 40 lbs, making the Medium PlexiDor dog door a perfect companion.

62

“I purchased the PlexiDor small pet door for my Smitty Kitty and installed it in a basement
window this summer. The cat finds it easy to use and my basement is still nice and warm. Here in
Connecticut we have had some -10 wind chill days and no cold air comes through the cat door.
Your pet door is a great product!”
V. Maloney – Connecticut

Norway has a characteristic and beautiful nature
with many tall mountains and deep fjords. The
country is also home to some dog breeds with
unique traits, such as a dog with six toes on each
foot.

Norway

Amongst dog breeds stemming from Norway you
will find the Black Norwegian Elkhound, the Halden
Hound, Norwegian Buhund, and the Lundehund.

Norwegian Lundehund
The Norwegian Lundehund is also called Norsk Lundehund or the “Puffin Dog.”
It is a small and agile Spitz with several unique characteristics. It has six toes on each foot, prick ear that fold closed - backwards or forwards at will - and a unique ability to tip its head backwards until it touches the back bone.
The head isn’t the only extremely agile part. The Lundehund has a great range of motion in all its joints, allowing it to fit
into and get out of narrow passages. The extra toe makes it good at climbing.
The Lundehund is described in writing as far back as the 1500s, and
originated in remote parts of Norway where it was used to wrestle
and retrieve live Puffin birds from the crevices of steep vertical
cliffs. The extra toe was particularly useful for these balance acts.
The breed was as good as extinct after the second world war, and
all dogs alive today stem from five dogs found on a remote island
in the Arctic Ocean. No other breed was ever on the island.
This is a loyal and playful companion with excellent personality.
They are easy to live with and their coat require minimal upkeep.
On the downside, the Lundehund has a digestive disorder that
makes it difficult to absorb nutrients from food. In extreme cases,
the dog can starve even though it is well fed.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

PlexiDor Size Chart
Selecting Your Pet Door

Small

Medium

Large

Extra Large

Size

Dog
Weight

Opening
Width

Opening
Height

Small

Dogs up to9
Cats up to24
pounds

6 1/2

inches

7 1/4

inches

Cats, Chihuahuas, Pomeranians, Papillons, Yorkies, 
Maltese and Japanese Chins

9

12

Poodles, Corgis, Dachshunds, Beagles, Pekingese, Shelties,
Schnauzers, Cocker Spaniels and most Terriers

Medium
Large

Up to

40

Breed Size Examples

pounds

inches

inches

Up to

11 3/4

16

Labradors, German Shepherds, Golden Retrievers, Boxers,
Collies, Setters, Bulldogs, Pointers and Dobermans

100

pounds

inches

inches

Up to

16

23 3/4

Great Danes, St.Bernards, Rottweilers, Old English Sheepdogs,
Newfoundlands, Irish Wolfhounds and Great Pyrenees

20

Large breed examples as listed including Malamutes, 
Weimaraners, Rhodesian Ridgebacks and all Cats

Extra
Large

pounds

inches

Electronic

125

Up to

12 3/4

220

inches

inches

pounds

Installation Height

inches

The suggested mounting distance from frame to floor.

These measurements are provided to help ensure
a proper installation height based on the pet door
size you have selected.
The distance shown
is measured from the
bottom of the frame
to the floor.

Bottom edge
of frame
To floor

Small
2”- 4”

Measuring Your Dog
Measuring your dog will help
determine proper size and
appropriate installation height.
Width

Back
Height

64

Allow for 2” above
back height of pet

Medium
4”- 6”

Large
8”- 10”

Extra Large
12”- 14”

Opening
Width

Opening
Height

The suggested measurements are a guide only.
Make sure the pet door is installed so that the
opening is at least 2” above the pet’s back.

New Guinea represents less than one percent
of the world’s landmass, but has an astonishing
number of animals and plants. The ecosystem has
been isolated for long periods of time and shows
an abundance of species found nowhere else in
the world.
This has also affected the island’s only dog breed;
the New Guinea Singing Dog. The breed has developed virtually undisturbed from the stone age until
1957 when the first dogs left the island.

Papua New
Guinea

New Guinea Singing Dog
The New Guinea Singing Dog isn’t your average
house pet. The dogs are close to the wild with a
strong hunting instinct. The breed is often called a
living, breathing, four-legged fossil, and it is believed
to be the rarest breed in the world.
The name comes from their howl, which is melodious
and distinctive. They can vary the pitch, and if howling
in a group all dogs will strike a different pitch.
These dogs are intelligent, agile, graceful, lively, alert,
and active. They can be quite stubborn, and they require a lot of exercise to stay happy and healthy.
New Guinea Singing Dogs are escape artists not only
able to jump and dig; they can climb trees too.
The Singing dogs are affectionate and gentle towards
people they know, but uninterested in strangers. They
also don’t see the point in performing for human entertainment, and they aren’t interested in learning tricks.
These dogs normally weigh between 18 and 30
pounds. They are hardy with an exptected life span of
up to 20 years.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Portugal has given the world around two handfuls
of dog breeds, including the Estrela Mountain
Dog, the Portuguese Pointer, and the Portuguese
Water Dog, made famous in the USA by the
Obama family bringing them to the White House.
The Portuguese Water Dog is a working dog originally developed to help fishermen. The dogs would
herd fish into nets, retrieve broken nets, and act as
couriers between ships and shore. They’re known for
being loyal, active, and athletic. They have a water
proof coat and are considered good for people with
allergies.

Portugal

Rafeiro do Alentejo
The Rafeiro do Alentejo – also called the Alentejo Mastiff – is an old Portuguese dog breed developed to protect herds
of sheep and cattle. The dogs are believed to stem from Molosser type dogs from Tibet that came to Europe thousands of years ago.
These dogs are calm, self confident, and highly independent. They are affectionate with their family and will bravely
protect the people, households, sheep, and cattle they perceive to be under their protection. They’re not aggressive, but
protective, and they are particularly watchful during nighttime.
Puppies mature slowly and need to be watched when young; they don’t
realize their limits and tend to overexert themselves with running, jumping, and climbing stairs. The breed is known to be suspicious against
strangers, and it is wise to subject the puppies to many different environments and people.
Being independent and bred to make decisions on their own, training a
Rafeiro do Alentejo requires consistency and patience. They love affection
and are eager to receive it, but won’t submit to a human’s every whim.
They don’t see the point in sitting, standing, sitting, lying down, sitting,
high-fiving, and so on, and they prefer to save their energy for real work.
Besides the seasonal shedding period they require a minimum of grooming. They are generally calm indoors and don’t require excessive amounts
of exercise, but should get a longer walk or a jog every day.
These are very large dogs that weigh up to 135 lbs, and they require an
Extra Large PlexiDor Dog Door.

66

“At the moment we have eight dogs, we’ve had as many as twelve here at one time. We installed
the PlexiDor dog door unit in 2001 and it is still going strong. Our dogs are indoor-outdoor as
they please, so you can imagine how many times the dogs have gone through the door during
the years.”
P. Cahill and T. Brotherton

Portuguese Podengo
The Portuguese Podengo is an ancient dog breed believed
to stem from dogs brought to Portugal by Phoenician traders around 700 BC. The dogs are hardy, intelligent, fearless,
loyal, and energetic.
The Portuguese Podengo has developed into three sizes:
Pequeno, Medio, and Grande. Each size can be smooth or wire
coated, and the different varieties are not interbred. They’re all
referred to as the Portuguese Podengo.
Podengo Grande is the largest with a weight range of 44 to 66
lbs. They were originally developed for hunting deer and wild
boar, and they are tough, hardy, and very observant. Nowadays this size is rare, even in Portugal. A Portuguese Podengo
Grande needs a Large PlexiDor dog door.
Podengo Medio weighs between 35 and 44 lbs. They are great
at chasing, but can also stalk like a cat, and have a funny way
of jumping to see over things. They are very active and make
great dogs for active families. A smaller Podengo Medio can
use a Medium PlexiDor dog door, but large individuals might
need a Large PlexiDor dog door.
The Podengo Pequeno is the most common in the USA.
They are watchful, observant, and very active. Many owners
say these dogs are silly and funny indoors. Most Podengo
Pequenos will require a Medium PlexiDor dog door.
The Portuguese Podengo is a hardy breed that often lives into
its late teens. They excel at agility and other sports, and love to
have a job to do.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Russia is a very large country, and the dog breeds
stemming from Russia are as varied as the landscape.
Russia has given us the Samoyed, Siberian Husky,
Russian Spaniel, Moscow Water Dog, Laika, Central
Asian Shepherd Dog, Borzoi, Black Russian Terrier,
and many more breeds.

Russia

Black Russian Terrier
The Black Russian Terrier is a large, powerful, and robust type of working dog developed in the Soviet Union after the
second world war.
When the war was over, the state operated Red
Star Kennel, and the kennel’s task was to provide
dogs to the Soviet Union’s armed services. The
country needed large, strong, and unpretentious
dogs that were also intelligent and easy to train.
Furthermore, the dogs could not require extensive coat care.
There were few purebred dogs in the country
at this time, and some breeds were imported to
create a mix that could live up to the requirements. The Black Russian Terrier stems from a mix
of Rottweilers, Giant Schnauzers, Airedale Terriers,
and some other breeds.
Black Russian Terriers have a strong instinct to
guard and protect. They are typically reserved
with strangers but loving with the family. They
have a great memory and learn new things with
ease. Like all working breeds they need something to do, and many Black Russian Terriers excel
in agility and obedience.
The dogs are still rare outside of Russia, but they
are gaining ground throughout Europe. They are
very large - males usually weigh between 110
and 130 pounds, but can be bigger.

68

“This new PlexiDor dog door is terrific! The rear of my house is no longer cold due to drafts, and
it’s easy for my pets to use. Also, it looks much much nicer. This door is worth every penny. Thank
you!”
J. Durst

Borzoi
The Borzoi is a large and elegant hound stemming from Russia where the aristocracy bred them for hundreds of years.
There are records stemming back to the 13th century that describe hounds very much like the Borzoi, and the first
breed standard was written in 1650.
These dogs were often used for
hunting wolves, and they are bred
to be strong and quick enough
to be able to chase and capture a
wolf. They are extremely fast and
run between 35 and 40 mph.
When they’re not running, Borzoi
are known for being calm and
easy to get along with. They are
quiet, affectionate, and independent.
Borzoi require regular exercise
and grooming. Brush the coat
every day, or at least every second
day, and be prepared for seasonal
shedding.
These are large dogs. Males often
stand 28 inches or more at the
shoulder, and weigh around 100
pounds. Despite the size they’re
graceful and catlike indoors.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Siberian Husky
The Siberian Husky is an energetic working breed that originated in north-eastern Siberia. They are clever and good
with children, but require a lot of exercise and get bored quickly. Left to their own devices without anything to do,
Huskies tend to make something up to entertain them.
These dogs are active and resilient, and were originally bred to pull heavy loads over long distances in a harsh and cold
climate. Huskies like to run, jump, and dig, and they need exercise every day.
The first Huskies come to North America were imported as sled dogs, but rapidly gained popularity as pets. They have a
thicker coat than most breeds, and this serves them both in summer and in winter as the coat protects against arctic cold as
well as reflects heat in the summer.
Siberian Huskies are pack dogs. That means they love being part of a family. They generally get along well with other dogs
and they’re gentle with children, but they don’t like to be left alone.

70

“The PlexiDor pet door is the best pet door. Moreover, it keeps out the winter wind and cold here
on the northern plains. Wind up here often blows a steady 30-40 mph, but the door stays shut
and the room remains warm. ”
S. Owen – North Dakota

Samoyed
Samoyeds are a friendly dog breed that has worked with everything from herding reindeer to pulling sleds. The breed
gets its name from the nomadic Samoyedic peoples of Siberia.
This breed is considered primitive. That doesn’t mean
they’re not developed, it means they are one of the fourteen ancient breeds that have been identified through
DNA analysis.
Samoyeds have a dense, double coat and they shed
heavily twice each year. They shed a little all around the
year, but during the seasonal shedding it’s snowing. Many
use the shed fur for knitting, and the end result resembles
angora. Samoyed fur sweaters can help a person withstand
temperatures far below freezing.
These dogs are amongst the most friendly and sociable
of all the spitz type dogs. They generally keep a happy expression that has given them the nick-name “Smiley dog.”
Samoyeds can earn their keep as watchdogs because they
will bark when something approaches, but they make poor
guard dogs. They generally love children, and tend to herd
them. A Samoyed playing with children will often attempt
to keep them together and make them move in a new
direction.
These dogs often compete in agility, carting, flyball, tracking, mushing, and even herding.

There are fourteen ancient dog breeds currently identified
through DNA analysis:
Afgan Hound
Akita Inu
Alaskan Malamute
Basenji
Chow Chow
Lhasa Apso
Pekingese

Saluki
Samoyed
Shar Pei
Shiba Inu
Shih Tzu
Siberian Husky
Tibetan Terrier

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

There are around twenty dog breeds associated
with Spain. The Great Pyrenees is probably the
most famous, but other popular breeds include
the Spanish Water Dog, the Pachon Navarro with
its split nose, and the Burgos Pointer.

Spain

Other breeds from Spain include the Andalusian
Hound, Catalan Sheepdog, Pyrenean Mastiff, and
the Spanish Mastiff.

Great Pyrenees
The Great Pyrenees is a majestic, confident, and smart mountain dog with waterproof coat and immense calm. The
breed is believed to have come to Europe from central Asia around 1,000 BC.
These dogs tend to work independently, and they might not always do what you tell them to do. They’re not amongst the
most active of dogs, but they do need exercise to stay happy and healthy. They also need weekly brushing to keep the coat
in good condition.
While these dogs are known for being calm and friendly, they are also very big. It is wise to enroll in puppy school and teach
the dog good manners from a young age, just to make sure you’re walking the dog and not the other way around.

72

“I’ve had one of your Extra Large PlexiDors for several years, and I love it. I’ve had several other
cheaper doors over the years, and this door is absolutely worth every penny. In fact, I just this morning recommended it to my boss who is looking for a dog door. Thank you for a great product!”
L. Mills

Sweden is a large country to the surface, but with
a fairly small population. The fact that the Scandinavian peninsula is a peninsula has benefited the
development of unique dog breeds in the Nordic
countries.

Sweden

Amongst the Swedish breeds you will find the
Drever, Hamilton Hound, Swedish Vallhund, Swedish
Lapphund, and several other breeds.

Swedish Vallhund
The Swedish Vallhund is often referred to as the dog of the Vikings. In Sweden the breed is called Västgötaspets. This
is a small, sturdy, and fearless dog that stems back to the Vikings over 1,000 years ago. Some historians believe they
were brought to Wales around the year 800, forming part of the ancestry of the Welsch Corgi.
The Swedish Vallhund is an original species, and this means it didn’t come from another type of dog. They are traditionally
used to herd cattle, catch vermin, and guard the home. Today they excel at obedience, agility, tracking, herding, and flyball.
They’re intelligent, alert, and eager to please at the same time as they are athletic and active.
In Sweden, docking of the tail is against the law, but some Vallhunds are still seen with bobtails. They can be born with no
tail, with a stub tail, or with full tail.
The Vallhund has been featured on stamps around the world. Besides Swedish stamps the breed has been on stamps from
Nicaragua, Ukraine, Mali, and Russia.
These dogs normally weigh between
20 and 30 pounds and stand
between 11.5 and 13.5 inches at the
shoulder. A medium PlexiDor dog
door is perfect for letting them into
the yard.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Norrbottenspets
Norrbottenspets is an ancient Swedish dog breed also known as the Nordic Spitz. They were originally used as farming
and hunting dogs, but they are adaptable and can be trained for any sport or competition.
The oldest known written documentation of the breed stems back to the 17th century, but it is likely they were around
even earlier. They are popular for hunting grouse and fox, but some dogs with tousle with animals as large as moose and
bear.
These dogs are intelligent, strong, and fast. They’re normally good with children, cats, and other pets belonging to the family, but they have a strong prey drive and should not be let off leash in an unfenced area.
The Norrbottenspets is a hardy breed. They are considered the healthiest breed in their home country of Sweden based
on statistics from insurance companies and veterinarians. They are also ranked as having the third longest life span of all
breeds common in Sweden.
A Norrbottenspets normally weighs between 20 and 30 pounds, making the medium PlexiDor dog door a perfect match.

“This is our second order of PlexiDor (new house) – we are very pleased with the products and
installation support.”
C. Smalley – Pennsylvania
74

Danish Swedish Farmdog
The Danish Swedish Farmdog comes from the area of southern Sweden and northern Denmark. The dogs historically
worked on farms as multipurpose dogs that caught vermin, hunted, and protected farms and animals.
These dogs are known for being gentle, soft, and easygoing. They make great family dogs and normally do very well with
children. As most working breeds, they have an abundance of energy and love having a job to do. They do well in active
dogsports such as agility, flyball and lure courseing.
Many think this is a type of terrier, but these dogs have a quite different temperament than the average terrier. They are
energetic enough to be good at their job, but also able to relax.
A Danish Swedish Farmdog weighs between 15 and 25 pounds, and needs a medium PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Switzerland is a small country to the surface, but
big when it comes to producing world popular
dog breeds. The St. Bernard is probably the most
well known, but several other breeds also come
from this area.

Switzerland

The Swiss Mountain Dogs include the Greater Swiss
Mountain Dog, Bernese Mountain Dog, Appenzeller
Sennenhund, and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog.
Other Swiss breeds include the Alpine Spaniel and
the Berger Blanc Suisse.

St. Bernard
The St. Bernard is probably most associated with rescue dogs carrying a keg around the neck, and the dogs were
indeed used for rescue missions in the Swiss Alps. The earliest written records stem back to 1707, and there are even
older paintings depicting the dogs.
In the early 19th century the breed was nearly extinct, and in an effort to save it the remaining dogs were bred with Newfoundlands. This cross breeding changed the build of the dogs and gave them a much longer coat than they originally had,
which prevented them fron successfully rescuing people in the mountains.
These dogs are friendly and loyal, but with an average weight between 140 and 160 pounds, training is vital.

“We purchased one of your awesome PlexiDor dog doors last year and my husband installed it by
himself in one day. It was the best thing we could ever have done.”
P. and R. Wagner
76

Appenzeller Sennenhund
The Appenzeller Sennenhund is the rarest of the Swiss Mountain dogs. It belongs to the same category as the more
known Bernese Mountain dog, but they are separate breeds.
This is a large and active breed that
requires exercise, training, and a job to
do. Due to their size and high energy
level they’re not ideal for apartment life.
They bond closely with their owners and
thrive on attention, but can be suspicious
toward strangers. They do, however, normally get along well with other dogs and
other types of animals.
Appenzellers are generally affectionate
and charming, intelligent, tough, and
energetic. They learn quickly and love
having something to do.
They are often used to herd cows, and
control wayward cows through dashing
in to nip at the heels. This requires courage and says a lot about the breed. They
also excel at agility and games of catch.
Most Appenzellers are healthy, and the
average life span is 13-17 years. They
weigh between 50 and 70 pounds and
require a large PlexiDor dog door.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

White Swiss Shepherd
The White Swiss Shepherd, or Berger Blanc Suisse, is an intelligent and loyal dog with cheerful temperament. They
are friendly and eager to learn, and make great family dogs as well as working companions. The average White Swiss
Shepherd is very good with children, attentive, and curious.
The dogs are related to the German Shepherd, and the breed emerged from white coated German Shepherds. Switzerland
was the first country to officially recognize the dogs as a separate breed, thus the name.
White Swiss Shepherds are gentle and normally get along well with other dogs. They are often used for search and rescue,
agility, and obedience, and make great assistance dog. While they are both willing and able to protect their family they’re
not usually used as guard dogs. Unless someone they love is threatened they’re generally too gentle and mellow to bother
with strangers.
Like all working breeds, they are happiest if they get ample exercise and something to do.

“Have loved my PlexiDor for 15 years! Thank you for such a good product!”
Preppy Jennings – Greenville, NC
78

Bernese Mountain Dog
The Bernese Mountain Dog is the only one of the Swiss Mountain Dogs with a long and silky coat. In addition, it is
probably the most known of the breeds in the group.
Bernese Mountain Dogs are smart, strong, and agile, and were historically developed as farm dogs. They worked cattle and
watched over the farm. Today, they excel at agility, tracking, herding, obedience, and therapy work.
Bernese Mountain Dogs are known for being good natured, self assured, and friendly. They require a lot of exercise and can
move much faster than most people expect when seeing a dog this size. Bernese Mountain Dogs have a gentle and easy
going manner, and they love to be close to their family. They’re usually patient and affectionate and do well with children.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Many popular dog breeds come from England
or other parts of the United Kingdom. Several
are working breeds, but many are also bred for
company.
Many spaniels, hounds, and terriers come from this
area. Examples of common dog breeds include the
Beagle, Jack Russell Terrier, Bloodhound, Old English
Sheepdog, Border Collie, Border Terrier, Cavalier King
Charles Spaniel, and the English Setter.

United
Kingdom

Norwich Terrier
The Norwich Terrier is an intelligent and energetic working dog from England. This is basically the same breed as the
Norfolk Terrier – the difference between the breeds can be seen in the ears. A Norwich terrier has perked, upright ears
while a Norfolk Terrier has dropped ears. The two varieties were considered one breed for a long time.
Norwich Terriers were originally created to hunt small vermin and foxes, and the strong hunting instinct remains in the
breed. Even the most well behaved Norwich Terrier can succumb to instinct and take off after a squirrel or other animal
considered prey, and it is wise to not let them off leash outside a fenced in yard.
These dogs love their families. They’re adaptable, eager to please, and generally get along well with children. They do need
ample exercise – at least two long and brisk walks every day – and they’re happiest when they have something to do. If
your Norwich terrier barks a lot or digs a lot of holes in the yard he or she is probably bored.
When it comes to grooming they need a weekly
brushing. Most owners strip the coat twice a year
– stripping means to pull out the dead top coat
– and doing so maintains the dog’s characteristic
appearance and gets rid of a lot of the shedding.
They don’t need frequent baths, unless they find
something stinky to roll in, of course.
The Norwich Terrier is one of the smallest terriers.
They generally stand around 10 inches tall at the
shoulder and weigh around 12 lbs. A small individual can get by with a small PlexiDor dog door,
but most Norwich Terriers will need a medium
PlexiDor dog door.

80

“I have 5 big dogs, Mastiffs and Bull Mastiffs, and have used the Plexidor XL dog door for 15 years
now. The constant use of this dog door by these dogs is proof of their value. And, the technical
support is terrific.”
J. West – Granite Falls, WA

Bull Terrier
Many who don’t know the breed fear bull terriers because of their muscular appearance and
unusual head shape. This is one of the world’s friendliest dog breeds, created in the 1800s to
be companions that combine the best of bulldogs and terriers.
Bull Terriers love to play. They thrive on affection and are often referred to as clowns.
They can be quite goofy and become attached to their families - they don’t like
being alone. They are energetic and need exercise. For those who like to
compete, many Bull Terriers do great in obedience, agility, and show rings.

English Bulldog
The English Bulldog is a friendly and patient dog known for getting along well with children, other dogs, and other
types of pets. These dogs are muscular and heavy and some find their appearance intimidating, but they’re normally
absolute sweethearts and amongst the gentlest of all dog breeds.
Bulldogs are calm dogs that like to relax in a comfortable
chair and watch TV with their humans. They need a walk
every day, but they’re far from the explosive bundles of
energy characteristic for many other dog breeds.
Take care with bulldogs during summer - they are sensitive to heat and must be protected so they don’t get heat
stroke. Also watch over your bulldog when you’re close to
water. Most bulldogs are unable to swim and will sink no
matter how much they paddle to stay afloat.
English Bulldogs are known for being gentle, loving, dependable, and protective. They are likely to form strong
bonds with children. They seek out human affection and
attention.
An English Bulldog normally weighs between 53 and 55
pounds, and needs a large PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Border Collie
The Border Collie is a herding dog from the United Kingdom. These dogs are intelligent, energetic, acrobatic, and athletic. They are often referred to as the smartest of dogs, Einsteins of the dog world, race cars on paws, and workaholics
of the dog world.
Many Border Collies appear in TV shows, movies, and commercials. In 2013 one Border Collie was tested on over 1,000
words along with basic understanding of grammar, and Swedish movie dog Turbo understood three languages. They can
run around 30 mph and maintain speed while they twist and turn with full control.
This is a fantastic dog for the right owner, but they need interaction, constant stimulation, and something to do. Deprived of
this they grow bored and make up chores for themselves - which usually includes something you don’t want your dog to do.
Border Collies also tend to herd anything that moves, including children, bikes, cars, other dogs, and other animals.

82

“I had a PlexiDor dog door for eight years. My collie and chow RAN through that door a hundred
times a day and it never failed. The wall unit is still in that house, now a rental. This house came
with a flap and my two fast and loving pit bull mixes deserve better. Time for a new PlexiDor, this
will be the third unit I have installed.”
Rich Braverman – Las Vegas, Nevada

Golden Retriever
The Golden Retriever is one of the most popular breeds in the USA and around the world. These dogs are intelligent,
eager to please, and hard workers – a combination that makes them perfect guide dogs, assistance dogs, and search
and rescue dogs.
Golden Retrievers stem from Scotland, where the breed was created as a hunting companion well suited for the climate and
terrain. The breed as we know it today took shape in the late 1800s. They’re generally good at whatever they do, and take
tasks seriously.
These dogs are active and energetic, and they require daily exercise. Golden Retrievers have a joyful approach to life, and
they love to be part of an active family that takes them hiking, jogging, and lets them play every day.
An average Golden Retriever weighs between 55 and 75 lbs, and needs a Large PlexiDor dog door.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Bedlington Terrier

The Bedlington Terrier was developed in England in the early 19th
century. The dogs were used to take care of vermin in the Bedlington
Mining Shire, and they get their name from the area.

This breed generally does very well with children and the dogs are known
to be mild and gentle with their family. It is important to teach them good
recall; they run extremely fast, and it is not a good idea to let them off
leash unless in a securely enclosed area.
Bedlington Terriers can get along fine with other household animals, but they were bred to be hunters and it’s a good idea
to get them accustomed to living with other pets at a young age. Despite their small size they have been used to hunt both
badgers and foxes, and the strong hunting instinct remains.
When it comes to care and grooming, the Bedlington sheds little to no hair, but needs trimming every six weeks. Despite
some hereditary diseases such as a liver problems, their average life expectancy is still around 17 years.
The Bedlington Terrier is small, usually between 18 and 23 pounds, and does well with a medium PlexiDor dog door.

Beagle

The Beagle is a sturdy hunting dog with cheerful personality. They are friendly, merry,
enjoy the company of both humans and other dogs, and they make great family pets.
They also have one of the best developed senses of smell of any dog.
Beagle-type dogs have existed
for at least 2,000 years, but the
modern breed comes from Great
Britain where it was developed
around 1830. They’re popular in
film, TV, and comic books, and
Snoopy is no doubt the most
famous beagle.
This breed is easy to care for. They
don’t drool, they don’t “smell like
dog” and they shed little.
Beagles are generally healthy
and have an expected life span of
12-15 years.
Beagles weigh between 20 and
25 lbs, and do well with a
Medium PlexiDor Dog Door.

84

“This dog door has singlehandedly changed my life. I have so much more freedom, I basically
feel like I have a full time caretaker for my dog. In addition to being an incredibly well made and
designed product, the PlexiDor customer service has been beyond my expectations.”
Ryan McMurtrie – Winneconne, Wisconsin

Well over fifty dog breeds are associated with
the USA, and many of these breeds have become
popular around the world.
Examples of dog breeds from the USA include the
American Bulldog, American Foxhound, Mountain
Cur, American Pit Bull Terrier, Toy Fox Terrier, Blue
Lacy - which is the state dog of Texas - and the Black
Mouth Cur.

USA

Catahoula Cur
The Catahoula’s official name is Louisiana Catahoula Leopard Dog, and it is believed to be the first dog breed developed in North America. The breed is named after Catahoula Parish in Louisiana, and they are Louisiana’s state dog.
The Catahoula is an energetic and highly intelligent dog. They like to have a designated job to do, and that job will be taken
seriously. Catahoulas make outstanding hunting dogs able to track animals from miles away, and they are often used for
herding cattle. They also make wonderful family dogs, as long as they’re
allowed to be with the family - they
don’t like being left alone in a yard.
Catahoulas are protective and will
alert to anything out of the ordinary.
They are assertive, but not aggressive.
These dogs have been bred more
based on ability than appearance, and
come in a wide range of colors and
sizes.
They typically weigh between 40 and
90 pounds, which would make a large
PlexiDor dog door a great choice, but
some large individuals weigh 110
pounds and would require an extra
large PlexiDor.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Alaskan Malamute
The Alaskan Malamute is the largest and oldest of the Arctic sled dogs. They have a quiet and dignified temperament
and are known for their unwavering loyalty to their owners.
This is an arctic breed developed to carry large loads over long distances, and they love activity. Alaskan Malamutes are
known for their power and endurance, and they enjoy sledding, back-packing, jogging, and swimming.
The dogs are brown eyed and heavy with a double coat. The undercoat can be up to two inches long, protecting the dog
from cold, snow, and harsh weather. The dogs are affectionate, friendly, and intelligent, but can be stubborn.
Average height is 23-25 inches and acerage weight 75-85 pounds, making a large PlexiDor dog door a perfect fit. Some
individuals can be very big and weigh well over 100 pounds, and they would need an extra large PlexiDor.

86

“I have five big dogs, Mastiffs and Bull Mastiffs, and have used the Plexidor XL dog door for
15 years now. The constant use of this dog door by these dogs is proof of their value. And the
technical support is terrific.”
John West – Granite Falls, Washington

PlexiDor® Awning
Stop Snow, Rain, and Sun!
The easy to install PlexiDor® Awning prevents rain, sun, and
snow from entering through a pet door.
The pet door awnings are made from durable aluminum with a
baked-on finish. They are available in white or bronze, and make a
perfect accessory for all PlexiDor® pet doors. Available in three sizes.
Not designed for installation on glass.

• Don’t let snow or rain come in when your
pet goes out!
• Reduce the wind on your pet door
• Reduce energy loss
“Your company has outstanding customer service and friendly, knowledgeable
staff. I just wanted to write to you and tell you how much I love your doors, and
how happy they make both me and my best friends.”
Merry LoCurto

Danish Swedish Farmdog
See Page 75

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Carolina Dog
The Carolina Dog was first discovered in the 1970s and it is a landrace, which means
it has developed by natural processes and adapting to its environment. The Carolina
Dog is one of very few breeds that developed to survive in nature and not through
selective breeding.
These dogs are likely to be relatives to the first dogs that crossed the Bering landbridge into
America from Asia together with the first primitive humans. There are skulls and fossils over
2,000 years old that are nearly identical with the Carolina Dog of today.
Many of these dogs are shy around people, but when kept as pets they are loyal to their human and bond with the family’s
children. They are gentle and social, and integrate well with the family.

Boston
Terrier
The Boston Terrier is a small and compact dog
often nicknamed the American Gentleman. These
dogs are known for being friendly and quiet, and
they have a happy-go-lucky personality.
The breed originated in Boston just after the Civil
War, and is a result of crossing English Bulldogs with
white English Terriers. Most modern Boston Terriers
can be traced back to one single ancestor; a dog
known as Hooper’s Judge.
Boston Terriers are intelligent and easy to train.
Many do very well in obedience, as therapy dogs,
and in agility or flyball competitions.
The Boston Terrier is well suited for being a companion and house pet. They require moderate amounts
of exercise and a minimum of grooming. They thrive
on attention and human contact.
The average weight span ranges from 10 to 25
pounds, and the dogs need a medium PlexiDor dog
door.

88

“My wife and I own three Leonbergers and three Chinooks. We were constantly replacing flaps or
panels. Then we installed two PlexiDor XL units at our new home. They have functioned flawlessly and allow our pets 24 hour access to their yard. We are very satisfied that we invested in a
superior product.”
Rick Skoglund – Waldboro, Maine

Australian Shepherd
The Australian Shepherd - or Aussie - is not an Australian dog breed; they get their name from herding Australian
sheep. The breed is believed to have originated on farms in the western United States.
Aussies come in a wide range of color combinations, and their eye colors vary to the point where the breed has been
nicknamed the ghost eye dog. Their eyes can be any shade of brown or blue - or split with half of an eye brown and the
other half blue.
Some Aussies are born with a naturally
bobbed tail. Others have full long tails,
and others yet natural partial bobs.
Not many dog breeds smile like
humans do, through baring their
teeth, but the Aussies are known for
doing this.
Like all working breeds, the Aussies
have a lot of energy and need a job
to do. They are often used as searchand-rescue dogs, disaster dogs, guide,
service, or therapy dogs. They also
excel at agility, flyball, and frisbee.
The dogs are known for being clever,
energetic, kind, loving, and devoted to
their family.
Aussies can come in many sizes, and
fall somewhere in the range of 30 to
65 pounds. Most Aussies will require
a large PlexiDor dog door, but smaller
individuals can do well with a medium
PlexiDor.

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Rat Terrier
The Rat Terrier is an American dog breed that used to be common on family farms throughout the USA. In the past
they were used as farm dogs and hunting companions, but today they’re considered a rare breed.
Rat Terriers come in a variety of coat colors and patterns and are often mistaken for Jack Russells. They are intelligent and
active dogs who make wonderful family pets.
The name comes from the occupation of its earliest ancestors who arrived to the USA in the 16th century; they were used
for controlling vermin and hunting small game.
During the years they have been bred for speed
and working abilities, and this history distinguishes them from many other types of dogs.
In many cases a breed developed from a small
number of founding dogs, but the Rat Terrier
stems from a large number of breeds and benefits from genetic diversity.
These dogs have a definite terrier personality,
but they’re usually calmer than Jack Russells, and
they love lounging on the sofa almost as much as
zooming around the yard.
They are known for being sensitive, easy to train,
and healthy. Like all active and intelligent breeds
they require company and stimulation.
Rat Terriers shed seasonally, but besides some
extra brushing at those times, they don’t require
excessive grooming. A weekly brushing and an
occasional bath go a long way towards keeping
the Rat Terrier looking great.
This is a fairly small dog, usually between 10 and
25 lbs, and they do well with a medium PlexiDor
dog door.

“The PlexiDor Electronic pet door works wonders! Absolutely worth every penny!”
Barbara Graham – Oregon, IL
90

American Cocker Spaniel
The American Cocker Spaniel is one of the most popular breeds in North America. They are cheerful and generally get
along well with children, other dogs, and other types of pets.
The history of the Spaniel goes back to the 14th century, and the first one in America is believed to have arrived on the
Mayflower in 1620. Since then the American Cocker Spaniel has developed individually, and grown quite different from its
English relatives.
The breed is sturdy, good natured, clever, and well balanced. They usually get along well with children and pets of all kinds.
Despite being so small, they possess both speed and endurance. These dogs are often described as the “can-do” dog that
makes a great family companion.
When it comes to grooming, this breed has an abundance of hair and they require regular grooming. On the bright side,
brushing your dog is a great opportunity to bond.
A typical American Cocker Spaniel weighs between 24 and 30 pounds, and would require a medium PlexiDor dog door.

Get a PlexiDor product catalog!
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

Rhodesian
Ridgeback

Zimbabwe

The Rhodesian Ridgeback is a large and muscular
dog developed for hunting lions and protecting the
family. They are large and tough enough to corner a
wild African lion, while also fast enough to compete
with Greyhounds. The name Rhodesian Ridgeback
comes from a ridge of hair down the back that grows
the opposite way from the rest of the coat.
The breed was developed during the 1600s when European settlers in Africa bred their dogs with native African dogs. As
time went by, Great Dane, Mastiffs, Greyhounds, Terriers, and other breeds were mixed in. This ended in 1707 when European immigration was closed for a hundred years, and during this time the native dogs got a bigger portion of the mix.
Rhodesian Ridgebacks are known for being independent and strong-willed, but they are also loyal, gentle, and reliable.
They love to be with their family, preferably curled up on the couch. The breed was created to be versatile, and the dogs
have worked as big game hunters, watchdogs, and even herders.
A Rhodesian Ridgeback generally weighs between 70 and 85 pounds, and needs a large PlexiDor dog door.

“The PlexiDor dog door is the greatest thing, it really is. It frees you and your dogs, and you will
experience very little heat loss.”
Eva Kaufman – Ontario, Canada
92

Sliding tracks with flip lock
Secure your home with ease and convenience!
Whether you leave your home for an extended period, or want added safety
every day, the PlexiDor® sliding track accessory makes securing your home a
breeze.
PlexiDors® size medium, large, and extra large are delivered with a steel security
plate that screws onto the pet door frame. The plate is a great tool for securing the
home, and for signaling to pets that the door is locked. Using the sliding tracks, it
takes seconds to mount the plate.
The tracks attach to the dog door’s interior frame using just a screw driver, and the
security plate slides down to its optimal position. Fasten the plate with the handy flip
lock, and it’s done.
The tracks are made from strong and durable aluminum that matches the pet door frame. They are available in silver,
white, or bronze, in sizes medium, large, or extra large. The smallest door does not have a security plate, because it is too
small for a person to get through.
Hardware for track installation is included.

• Secure your home with ease
• Tell your pets the door is locked
• Easy installation
• Call 800-283-8045!

Learn more about pet doors!
Visit www.plexidors.com

Dog Breeds of the World
Breeds represented in the book

Afghan Hound........................................... 6
Aidi...............................................................60
Akita............................................................55
Alaskan Malamute.................................86
American Cocker Spaniel....................91
American Eskimo....................................34
Appenzeller Sennenhund...................77
Australian Cattle Dog.............................. 7
Australian Shepherd..............................89
Barbet.........................................................33
Basenji........................................................24
Beagle.........................................................84
Beauceron.................................................29
Bedlington Terrier...................................84
Bergamasco..............................................51
Berger Picard............................................29
Bernese Mountain Dog........................79
Black Russian Terrier..............................68
Bloodhound.............................................10
Border Collie.............................................82
Borzoi..........................................................69
Boston Terier............................................88
Bouvier des Flandres.............................11
Brazilian Terrier........................................12
Broholmer.................................................23
Bull Terrier.................................................81
Caanan Dog..............................................47
Carolina Dog............................................88
Catahoula Cur..........................................85
Chihuahua.................................................58
Chinese Crested......................................17
Chow Chow..............................................19
Cirneco dell’Etna.....................................52
Dachshund...............................................36
Dalmatian..................................................21
Danish Swedish Farmdog....................75
Doberman Pinscher...............................38
English Bulldog.......................................81
Finnish Spitz.............................................27
German Shepherd..................................35
Glen of Imaal Terrier..............................44
Golden Retriever.....................................83
Great Pyrenees........................................72
Groenendael.............................................. 8

Havanese...................................................22
Hungarian Puli.........................................43
Irish Wolfhound.......................................45
Japanese Spitz.........................................53
Jindo............................................................56
Kai Ken........................................................54
Karelian Bear............................................26
Keeshond..................................................62
Kerry Blue Terrier....................................46
Komondor.................................................42
Kooikerhondje.........................................61
Labrador Retriever.................................14
Laekenois.................................................... 9
Landseer....................................................14
Leonberger...............................................37
Lundehund...............................................63
Malinois........................................................ 9
Maltese.......................................................57
Mudi............................................................40
New Guinea Singing Dog....................65
Newfoundland........................................15
Norrbottenspets.....................................74
Norwegian Lundehund........................63
Norwich Terrier........................................80
Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever..13

Papillon......................................................28
Pekingese..................................................18
Pharaoh Hound.......................................25
Poodle........................................................31
Portuguese Podengo............................67
Pug...............................................................20
Pyrenean Shepherd...............................30
Rafeiro do Alentejo................................66
Rat Terrier..................................................90
Rhodesian Ridgeback...........................92
Rottweiler..................................................39
Saluki..........................................................25
Samoyed....................................................71
Schipperke................................................10
Shar-Pei......................................................16
Siberian Husky.........................................70
St. Bernard.................................................76
Swedish Vallhund...................................73
Tamaskan Dog.........................................27
Tervuren....................................................... 9
Tosa..............................................................54
Vizsla...........................................................41
Volpino Italiano.......................................50
White Swiss Shepherd..........................78
Xoloitzcuintli............................................59

“The PlexiDor dog door is the greatest thing, it really is. It frees you and your dogs, and you will
experience very little heat loss.”
Eva Kaufman – Ontario, Canada
94

Dog Breeds of the World
Countries represented in the book

Afghanistan................................................ 6
Australia....................................................... 7
Belgium........................................................ 8
Brazil............................................................12
Canada.......................................................13
China...........................................................16
Croatia........................................................21
Cuba............................................................22
Denmark....................................................23
Egypt...........................................................24
Finland........................................................26
France.........................................................28
Germany....................................................34
Hungary.....................................................40
Ireland........................................................44
Israel............................................................47
Italy..............................................................50
Japan...........................................................53
Korea...........................................................56
Malta...........................................................57
Mexico........................................................58
Morocco.....................................................60
The Netherlands.....................................61
Norway.......................................................63
Papua New Guinea................................65
Portugal.....................................................66
Russia..........................................................68
Spain...........................................................72
Sweden......................................................73
Switzerland...............................................76
United Kingdom.....................................80
USA..............................................................85
Zimbabwe.................................................92

Get your own copy of this book
Visit: www.plexidors.com
Call: 800-283-8045

• Secure with cylinder locks and
steel security plate.
The door keeps unwanted guests out.
Insert the key to lock or unlock the door.
The lock features a steel cam and lock
cylinder.
The steel security plate can only be
unscrewed and removed from the inside.

• Energy-Efficient
The panels are molded to form a dual
thermo-pane effect for excellent insulation.
Both panels are lined on all four sides
wih snug-fitting high-density nylon pile
weather seal to provide superior draft
control. Doors close tight, keeping the
heating and cooling inside your home.
Saves money on your energy bill, and is
ideal for extreme climates!
*Size XL is a solid 3/8” thick sheet of
acrylic.

The PlexiDor® Promise
You must be completely satisfied with your door!
Every PlexiDor® comes with a 90 day Money Back Guarantee, and a
5-Year Warranty!
We think you will agree that PlexiDor® Pet Doors are the best looking,
best engineered, and best value you have ever seen in a pet door.
However, if for any reason you are not completely satisfied with your
purchase, just return it within 90 days and we will refund the purchase
price in full. Shipping charges are not refundable.
PlexiDor® Pet Doors are covered by a 5 year limited warranty. Any
defective part will be repaired or replaced without expense to the
customer, including standard shipping charges, for five years from
the purchase date. Local labor is not covered. (The warranty covers
residential use only.)

• Never change flaps again
Rigid, high-impact, shatter-resistant
acrylic panels do not require costly vinyl
replacement flaps.

• Two-Way Self-Closing
Large and small pets can use the same
door. Panels open smoothly with a
gentle push and close automatically.
Heavy duty springs are concealed within
the main frame.

• Close Quietly
Won’t disturb you, or frighten your pet.
The panels are insulated and lightly
tinted yet see-through, creating a
window for your pet.

• Heavy-Duty Frames
Hardened aluminum won’t rust, crack or
warp. Attractive satin finish, or baked on
white or brown finish.
“In the year 2000, we bought a PlexiDor pet door.
Since then it has been used continuously by two
large dogs, often at top speed. This has been the
best money we ever spent.”
Alma Taylor - Washington

“Sincere thanks for your wonderful product. Your
excellent service is also appreciated!”
Jim D.I. Dunnet, British Columbia, Canada

